Chance Me!
I’m an international student that is applying as ED.

Academics:
-1390 SAT (640 EBRW/750 Math)
-19 SAT Essay (7/6/6)
-40 IB predicted score
-Straight A’s in 9th grade and 10th grade

Extracurricular activities:
-Started a VEX Robotics club at my school
-1st place VEX Robotics competition in my country (UAE)
-TEDx Youth Finance And Fundraising Director at our school for two consecutive years.
-Helped build a school in Kathmandu, Nepal.
-Debate club for two consecutive years.
-Marking club assistant director for a year.
-X Country for a year




 Chance me ED!

Intended Major:Biomedical Engineering / Engineering / Biology

Is high school competitive or a feeder school: Competitive Public School

Demographics:

Race: Korean Male

First Gen or URM (Y/N): N

Stats

GPA (UW/W): 3.85 / 4.32

Ranking and Course Rigor: No Ranking - Taking almost all available APs

ACT : 35

SAT Subjects: 800 Chem 800 Physics 800 Math II C 800 Biology

AP/IB Scores: 5 Ap Stat 5 Ap Calc BC 5 Ap Physics C E/M 5 Ap Physics C M 5 AP CSP

Extracurriculars w/ very brief description

1.) Columbia Science Honors Program

2.) School Selected Internship for Surgical Methodologies

3.) Acceptance to AIME / 90 on AMC 12 / Honors in AMC 8 / 10

4.) Top 22 in State wide Physics Competition Rank 9 In State wide Team Physics Competition

5.) Internship at Summer camp 30 Hours

6.) Hospital Volunteer 150 Hours

7.) Lead Percussion at Orchestra Volunteer at Elder Homes 250 Hours

8.) IT Internship 130 Hours

9.) Physics Club 4 years, Chemistry Club 4 years, Spanish Club 4 years, Math Team 4 years Top 1/2 in School

10.) Lead Percussion at School Pit Orchestra 3 years




International Student from Nepal

Intended Major: Computer Science (College of Engineering)

**SAT**: Expecting \~1500

&#x200B;

**Grades**:

A\*A\*A\*A in Physics, Computer Science (Self studied in A2 Level), Mathematics and Further Mathematics respectively in Cambridge International A-Levels (**Rank**: 1/120)

GPA 3.8 in National Level Examination (Grade 10) (**Rank**: 3/160)

85% in Grade 9 (**Rank**: Top 1%)

&#x200B;

**ECs**:

&#x200B;

* Co-founder of A-Levels Mathematics Society in my school
   * Organized first ever mathematics program in the A-Levels department
   * Organizing a national level mathematics Olympiad for A-Level students
* Executive Member of Computer Science Club
   * Organized various programs within the school
   * Organized an IT quiz where multiple schools participated
* Participated in a few maths and science competitions
   * High achievement award in a national level Maths competition
   * Regional Excellence award in a Science Olympiad organized by India
* Tutoring students in A-Level Computer Science
* Self taught programmer
   * Have made a few programs using Java and Python (not published)
   * Created a game using Unity and C# (not published)
   * 200+ hours of Community Service

&#x200B;

**Awards:**

* Outstanding Cambridge Learner Award for gaining First Place in Nepal in the category Best Across 4 AS Subjects
* Award for Excellence in Academics (A-Levels)
* Award for Excellence in Academics (10th grade)

&#x200B;

**Recs:**

Counselor: Above Average

Mathematics teacher: 9/10

Computer Science teacher: 8/10

&#x200B;

**Essays**: 7/10




Don't let the grass grow under your feet




hey y’all!! senior in hs here with a dilemma on my hands. I am currently in 5 AP classes (11 total) and am deciding between AP Stats and AP Calc. I am enrolled in AP Calc AB, but the class is notoriously difficult to get an A in (teacher doesn’t teach well). I have a tutor, but I’m considering switching into Stats. I can easily get into Stats but I’ve heard that selective universities would rather see Calc than Stats. Should I switch? I could get an A easily in Stats but I’ll do whatever will help me for apps. I plan on majoring in political science ~a worried senior




Is it worth going to the Dump and Run sale, or will it be super crowded/not really have anything useful? Or does it just depend on what you're getting/when you go? Thanks!




my move-in day’s scheduled for the 23rd. once I do move in, what can or should I do on campus? I have a single, so should I get to know the others on my floor too?




Which orientation events would you actually recommend going to that aren't mandatory but are useful or fun?




Do we meet our orientation leaders during the Residence Hall Community Meeting or do we meet them before that?




Hit up your Orientation Leaders if y'all have any questions! They're here to help!!!




So my RA meeting is on Friday night but it conflicts with the Sabbath... Will they understand that I must be at services at the same time?  And how can I make up for it?




Don't put all your eggs in one basket




It’s a fixed tuition so Yes you get more for your money if you take more credits. Might even finish a semester early




During the academic year, no. You pay the same amount no matter how many credits you take.
For winter and summer classes, yes, you pay by credit.




Only if you take less than 12 credits.

https://finaid.cornell.edu/policies/prorated-tuition




Usually, just email them




> Instructor Consent Required. Contact the instructor of the class for permission to enroll.

https://registrar.cornell.edu/classes-enrollment/classes-and-enrollment-faq




It depends what kind of course it is. 4000's are often used for TA-ships, Directed Research, etc. What are you interested in taking?




Cobbler always wears the worst shoes




Unauthorized by the school administration




I honestly hate this question because it's totally dependent on you as person you'll probably have a similar experience  almost anywhere you go




Just sit in the back & get a good view...




if you’re willing to drop a few BRBs you can easily take a virginity or two




Same as anywhere I suppose.




study, sleep, drink, date

pick two




I believe that AP credit counts, and that you must take all courses for a grade. You can also email the physics DUS (Prof Liam McAllister) with questions.




Are hilc triples forced?




Forced triples were designed as doubled then they stuck an extra bed in there to make it a triple(though they vary some “forced triples” are much roomier than other). Regular triples were designed as triples and have stayed that way. LR7 has bunked forced triples and Dickson has “forced triples” as well though with much more space than Low rise.




Gen bio




[deleted]




even cooler when the stands are full




No offense but those people have some nice ass apartments to be complaining about costs, I'm sure there's cheaper apartments (but I've never been to Austin so who knows).

As for Ithaca, things like apartment and food are expensive for sure but if you get look carefully at apartments away from CTown and don't want to "live in luxury" then you can find some cheap spots, living on campus is a choice, moving away saves money if you're willing to put in the extra work. Then of course cooking brings down food cost by a lot.




According to [the Living@Cornell Calendar](https://living.cornell.edu/importantdates.cfm):

**Friday, August 23 - 10:30am** Meal Plan dining begins

**Wednesday, September 11** Last chance to reduce or cancel meal plan for the fall semester




I was literally about to ask this question. But, also, when can we start using the gym?




If it’s okay I’ll just drop the link here,😊 

https://discord.gg/ShQZrQv




> I’m also taking cs 3110, Econ 3130, and Ling 1101, plus an easy liberal studies course, research and TAing.   
  
Ok.  
  
>I also want to sleep sometimes too, if that helps.  
  
Then don't take a 5th class. Speaking from experience. If you insist on this, I've heard very bad things about NLP and nothing at all about computational math. The most important thing is to focus on your research rather than trying to add another class to your workload.




yeah the soda fountains in all the dining halls have it




its the little tab under the cornell equivalent of sprite




yes




Welcome to the seltzer jungle, chemo-sabe. You’ll be tasting many new liquids over the next four years. Some will be better than others.




While you're at the dining halls, make sure you try Cornell Orchards apple cider, Cornell dairy milk/chocolate milk, and Cornell Maple Syrup.

All are made via Cornell apples/cows/maple trees, with some from demonstration properties near/on campus, but most from further out Cornell-owned properties in the surrounding countryside.




You won’t have as much storage as other students. But you’ll have your own closet with shelves. There’s also a hallway/suite closet with has a lot of storage that you can use.




Here’s some videos so you can see for yourself, I’m in LR7 as well and found a bunch of dorm tours on YouTube. The second one is definitely LR7, I’m not 100% sure if the other one is LR6 or LR7. There’s a slight difference since LR7 triples are forced triples 


https://youtu.be/mnLEg800a-Q

https://youtu.be/oQCTCbUQOj8




Low Rise forced triple alum here! Instead of a closet you get a wardrobe that has a rack for hangers and then two drawers on the bottom. I bought a couple of long and flat storage bins so I could store some of my clothes under my bed, and then I had a couple little baskets for on top of my dresser (for my hair dryer, laundry detergent, etc). Each suite also has a coat rack where you can keep larger items like snow boots or a heavy coat.
For books & things, you get a desk with a little bookshelf, but I forget off the top of my head if the desk comes with drawers.
Low rise triples are definitely a little cramped, but there are ways to find room for storage for you and your roommates. I would wait to buy extra storage bins/drawers until you get in the room, see the layout and unpack as much as you can so you can better gauge what you need. Hope this helps!




F




Lived in a triple in LR7, the videos will help, you've gotta find space where you can. Its not a great building, but it is a good dorm - super social, most of my friends are from that dorm




You can just address your packages as:

Your Name

10301B Ujamaa

Ithaca, NY 14853

All Cornell dorm addresses function as street addresses; you don't need to pull a "literal" street address.




Freshman IDs are kept in a big pot of warm Cornell maple syrup at the top of the clock tower. Only ten people are allowed up there at a time so as not to crowd out the chimesmasters while they practice and perform. You can get in line starting on Thursday night, but honestly you might as well wait until mid-September because it’s much easier to locate your ID after most of the rest have been taken out of the pot. Or you can pay somebody to wait in line for you. This was the original meaning of the term “Cayuga’s Waiters.”




There will be an event in Barton Hall on move in day where you will be able to grab it.




Incoming freshman too! I would check if your residence hall director has sent any emails, like I'm going to live in Balch and our director sent out a newsletter letting us know to get our ID and room keys in the lounge after we move in. Maybe your hall has something similar?




like 70% i think.  everyone passed when i took it




It depends. They don’t tell you your score or what a passing score was in my experience—but it’s an easy test, don’t worry about it.




It's super low, I think if you pass the test (65%) you pass.




1980s alum here. This probably doesn't help you at all, but a friend of a friend was in Cornell ROTC. He was an Electrical Engineering student. Looking at his LinkedIn, he was a Commander in the Navy for 15 years. Served in Iraq for a year. Is now a professor of Electrical Engineering. Among other interesting things. He was a great guy, very smart.

Sorry if that doesn't help you, but thanks for reminding me of him.




I've had a couple of close friends have pretty different Army ROTC experiences, both within a couple years of my 2016 graduation.

One was a transfer from West Point because he hated the toxic culture there. At West Point, he was basically told to psychologically and physically bully (non-contact but ordering pushups and stuff) lower-ranked cadets. He had a breaking point and came to Cornell, where he became in charge of New Member Education at my frat, and student battalion commander for the Army ROTC. He really enjoyed Cornell, because there was, compared to West Point, a much more freeing environment, even within ROTC. He took it seriously and advanced well, but he had to be up early, out often. He did have a social life and did well in his classes, though. Since graduating, he served his mandatory time in the Army, not sure what rank he retired at. He was an intel specialist, and 1/3 of his division (?) was sent to fight ISIS in Iraq back when Mosul had been taken. He was going to rotate in but the field commander said he wanted to minimize the amount of new troops that had to get adjusted to local conditions. Now he works doing some business thing that I don't remember at a Fortune 500 company.

The other Army ROTC friend I had did ROTC for his first year at Cornell. He wanted to be in Diplomatic Security or something like that, and thought the military background would help. He talked to some professionals and they basically said that he'd be better off focusing on his grades and other extracurriculars than having been in the Army for a couple of years. He became an RA and got involved in clubs and such. After graduating, this guy joined the Navy to become an Intel Officer, but was seriously wounded in a training exercise (the paperwork for his limited duty after some surgery was delayed, so he was on meds during an exercise at 3am and cracked his head). Now he's been medically discharged but is "in the hopper" and could rejoin some training slots open up. For now he's beginning law school (not at Cornell), and he may stick with that or return to the Navy, or do both, depending on timing.

The second guy was my roommate for a semester. Most days he was out the door for morning training by 6, 6:15. He'd get back 2 hours later and try to go to sleep while I was getting ready for the day. He also had a small duffel of his kit that he had to keep track of and maybe maintain. So also be aware of the potential for roommate conflict if your schedules don't sync. Luckily there was no lasting conflict for us.




AFROTC cadet, PM me your questions!




>free



>cornell 

pick 1




When I lived on west campus in bethe house they gave them out for free.




No, don't you have a wallet or bag?




No.




no lol

hail martha




I believe it's required. Not sure of the purpose, but I finished the entire assignment in maybe 2 hours. The reading and the essay weren't terrible, I kinda liked doing it




Major Edit: this comment is about the class whereas OP asked about the orientation session. My mistake.

Okay so this class has very mixed reviews. Some love it, some hate it. So take this with a grain of salt because I’m one of the people that hated it.

The 2.5hr session is required. And in my case it lasted the 2.5hrs. You talk about the readings and have to participate (otherwise you get a 0 for participation for the day and they add up unfortunately). The 1 page writings are kinda more a reflection on the reading and can be done half assed honestly. You have a project at the end which typically ends up just being some coffee chat, unless the TAs decide to screw you (as was with my group) and then you end up having a half baked project which then receives a meh grade all thanks to the TA being malicious. They really control your grade in this class, not an objective system in my experience.

Especially the evening sessions, be wary of those since they get very tiring very quickly and you struggle to participate (and get dinner because 7.30 for a 2.5hr class is an awkward time).

The class itself breaks down into a number of topics such as race, socioeconomic status, and a few others I forget. You do one for the whole semester and while you can put priorities down, you end up where they put you (but typically I think you end up in your top two, although I could be mixing that up with FWS). Then (and I’m butchering the titles here because I can’t remember that far back) you are either the target or the non-target group (so like in race you’re either a minority or you’re not) and spend the whole semester discussing it from that POV. So if you’re not comfortable being vulnerable then either try change into a topic that’s targeting you less or drop the class. Because again, if you don’t participate you don’t get a decent grade.

EDIT: I’ll try drop the links below that also touch on this class:

https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/929dhv/intergroup_dialogue_educ_2610/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/atl4jz/intergroup_dialogue_project/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

Not trying to discourage you, but these are just the links I found on reddit that I’ve seen and think validly apply. Again at the end of the day some will like a class some will hate it, this one just depends quite a bit on the TAs leading it.




Just show up and BS the assignment




Any assignments that you "get" from anything other than official classes are nothing to worry about, you can write bs and nobody will really care. Don't stress it.




add/drop mood




Bruh fr fuck peoplesoft




i thought that only happened to me




This is the content this sub needs




Usually I just click the back button and it logs me in.




This is literally the dumbest shit ever. If they let any CS class redesign the website as a project they'd have a better functioning page in days.




Every damn time




obviously the weather is consistently worse than california's




Summers aren’t normally that bad in my experience, though there were some hot weeks. It’ll cool down pretty quickly once the semester starts. Then it stays pretty chilly for a lot of the school year. So make of that what you will




I like Ithaca weather more than California 🤷🏽‍♂️




September through beginning of November is generally fine. April and May is usually aight. Can get really hot on a few days but usually it’s fine. Not sure about summers. November until April is dreadfully cold. Nothing beats Cali




If you choose not to find joy in the snow, you will have less joy in your life but the same amount of snow.




Last year the weather was unbearable the first month—muggy and hot, and a lot of lecture halls don’t have AC so everyone is just sitting there sweating. In the winter it’s freezing and the sun doesn’t come out for weeks at a time. It also snows every single day. 

But, there’s like a two week stretch in fall where the weather is really nice and everything is pretty and also the last month of school the weather is great. 

Honestly you get used to it and it’s not that bad. I mean, It’s not great but what can you do? I like Ithaca as a whole and the weather doesn’t ruin anything for me.




Lmfao this is my speciality. I racked up $400 in Cornell tickets (was stupid and young). It will go on your dust(?) student account website and basically be a hold on your degree. It might even hamper signing up for courses. Basically you will need to pay them. You could try going to the office that deals with parking tickets and beg/cry but don’t count on that working.

I’m not too sure about Ithaca tickets - but seeing as it is the government and not private they can probably mess with you more.




Anything government related, they will send you notices & if you continue to ignore them, a bench warrant will be issued in your name.  It doesnt matter who illegally parked.  If the vehicle is under your name, you will be on the bench warrant.  This means that if you are stopped by the police for any reason in the future & they run your license, you MAY be taken in to jail until the fines are paid.




You go straight to Cornell Jail




Where did you hear this from?  My BIOMG 1350 Lecturer is Garcia... and it looks legit




It's only a joke if you laugh...




No clue but all I can say is that my peers who did humanities major had plenty of more free time than me (though admittedly a bit of that would be my fault for poor time management).




Yup, you can definitely swap- you’d change classes through Student Center during add drop.




That's the same info I've found when I researched it, 3 laps of 25 yards.

The thing is there isn't a time limit, so odds are if you can swim 3 laps of 15, you can swim 3 laps of 25.




What kind of pool is 15 yards long




It's a 25 yard pool where you swim 3 laps ~~without resting between them~~. It seems like they took the backstroke requirement out from when I took it.

You check-in with your student ID, get into a line, jump in (they don't like diving), swim three laps, get out on the other side, and make sure they've got you down as a pass.

If you are unable to do this due to non-medical reasons (ie you don't know how to swim) you will need to take a PE class that teaches you how to swim as one of your required PE classes (unlike many PE classes, this has no extra fee), then attempt the test again before graduating.

A friend of mine was an out of shape guy who never learnt to swim growing up in the inner city, and the instructor for his class insisted that he be able to pass, so had him stay after class or schedule extra lessons, at no cost, so that he could graduate on time.




Ask for forgiveness not permission. You dont magically become an adult once you’re 18 or off to college. Just turned 16? Dont ask your parents if you can get a job, go apply and tell them you got one. Dont ask your parents for a car, work 40 hours a week that summer to buy your own car. 

I’ve had a tricky relationship with my strict parents for as long as I can remember but over time they’ve come to realize that I know what’s best for me and I will only ask for advice and never for permission. If your parents are good, true people and you’re good to yourself they’ll accept it.




Gotta do this stuff behind their backs.  It's your life, and no one can free you but you.




Sorry to hear that. Being from a pretty strict Asian family, I know what it feels like to live under the suffocating "I know what's best for you" mindset. It's difficult/impossible to really escape your family (esp. if they're paying your tuition) but don't lose heart.




I grew up in a similar family but thankfully my parents have lightened up over the past few years. Interestingly, my parents used to want me to keep a low profile on social media, but nowadays its the other way around and I have to tell them not to gossip about job offers and stuff (so that I don't get messages from random family friends who think they know what's best for me).

You'll have to sort of bear with this ridiculousness while your parents come to grips with the fact that you're an adult now and can make your own choices. I think the best strategy is to keep them informed about your life and don't try to make big decisions behind their back that way you can build up that trust.

In terms of practical tips, when you make a post you can restrict visibility so your parents can't see it (for example, Facebook has a setting for you to prevent specific people from seeing a wall post).




Might be the only one saying this, but it sounds like they're just giving you advice you don't like. You've said nothing about them imposing some consequence for not following it or applying undue pressure, and they're allowed to tell you when they think you're making a mistake. In fact, that's their job. It's up to you whether or not to listen, but seeking validation from people you don't know on the internet, when they don't have the full story, is not a good way to respond to that.

&#x200B;

I'm not saying it isn't fine to vent. I'm not saying it isn't fine to seek validation when you think you need it. But I am saying that I don't feel comfortable giving you that validation, unlike every other comment I've seen so far. If everyone here gave you that validation, you'd just go on believing that you were definitely right and your parents were definitely wrong and how awful this all must be, but that's not necessarily the case and definitely not the conclusion you should walk away with.

&#x200B;

I've had conflicts with my parents, and I've complained about them to my friends, and I can definitely relate to feeling like I'm not free. But to go to strangers on the internet and complain about things that they "think" you should do or "ask" you to do and call that controlling, that doesn't sound fair to your parents nor to people who actually have abusive/controlling families.




>in the winter break when I know for a fact that recruiting season starts in the fall.

If it makes you feel any better plenty of people get internships that they applied to either super late first semester or pretty early second semester (or even past that). 

The only companies that open up recruiting that early are the massive monoliths that literally everyone else is applying to and banks. Plenty of startups and smaller (but still good) companies don't even start looking until later.

I'm not trying to undermine your frustration, but to just tell you that if you don't have an internship locked down by october it's still okay and definitely not too late.




Your class load isn't too out of the ordinary. There are plenty of resources to help get yoy through 1920, even if your calculus is shaky right now.




You definitely don’t need much if any 1920 stuff for Physics 1112. I wouldn’t worry about it; if there’s for some reason something that you need to know and don’t, the TAs will be able to help. 

I would also consider taking the credit for 1112; I got a 4 on the AP after taking Physics A (non calculus) in HS, so I took 1112. I had a very easy time of it in 1112, barely studied, etc. It should be a nice GPA boost for sure, and there’s something to be said for not having all your classes be new material at once. But you could also probably get by without 1112.

As someone else said, your class load is pretty ordinary. I would maybe think really hard about jumping up to both 1920 and physics 2213, but I would definitely suggest taking the AP credit for at least one of the two intro classes.




I'm in the same boat as you as an incoming freshman BioE. I believe we have to take the 1910 CASE exam (even with a 5 on BC) to enroll 1920, according to a professor I emailed. Are you going to take it?




1920 is easy just go into it




there will be student volunteers (rotc, athletes, etc.) that will help you move your things




My parents are on the older side, like yours, and I've never been in the best of shape. Waiting for the elevator was awful, so we ended up taking a lot more by stairs than we initially planned. I advise splitting said heavy boxes into smaller loads once you get there, have someone watching the stuff (if you're paranoid like we are) while the others bring it up.




You'll just have to wait until elevator is free and it's your turn, there are student helpers.




On school breaks, studentagencies runs a direct round trip bus to Boston that costs $150.




there are usually a decent number of zimrides during breaks - i often post on zimride and charge ~40 one way




I am actually a bit surprised there aren't more regular routes to Boston and Philly. Maybe things will get better with the upgraded airport - cheaper and more frequent flights maybe.




Outside of breaks you’re kind of stuck a lot of times to really inconvenient ways but over breaks there are plenty of buses and zimrides to Boston.




Flying




I'm also in the same boat, especially for fall break. There's literally no good way...




Yeah people do and I goofed on this and started making abortion jokes too early w people I just met




I’m down to play board games




I was in a low rise my freshman year & my unit got together and played cards against humanity during O Week and it was really fun! Jackbox games like quiplash are also really fun and a great way to get to know each other too. Unsure of how much that costs, but if you’re willing to spend the $ I highly recommend!




That sounds like fun to me. I'm an incoming freshman who is bad at making connections with people, so having somebody who started something like that in my dorm would be nice. I'm sure there's people in your dorm who'll want a chance to socialize, so go for it.




I'm not sure about starting a serious band yet, but I'm down to meet up and jam! Hmu!




Definitely down to talk about it, starting a band is one of my top things to do this year




Final deliverable is a new designation given to classes that have final projects/papers instead of final exams.




I’m a treasurer for an established independent student organization. Treasurers in my club have been using CFCU for as long as our records exist. CFCU has all the basics and it’s really nice that there’s a branch on campus to help you process dues and switch treasurers. You are limited to service in Tompkins County, but I like CFCU enough to stick with it.




Try to meet as many people in your dorm as quickly as you can, and once you find people you really like, spend more time with them, but continue meeting new people and talking to those that you’ve already met. You’ll find that friend groups often don’t solidify for weeks or even months, and those may not last forever (Rush week can really change things when you get back in the spring)

Also, just generally be friendly and take interest in people you meet. Everyone is trying to make friends, and people will immediately gravitate towards others who are friendly and fun to be around!

Last thing is try to get people together to do things—be the person that organizes 6 or 7 people to go down to the dining hall for dinner. If you’re seen as a link between people, that will also make things easier!




Put yourself out there. That's the biggest advice I can honestly give. 

Especially when you first move in, you're in this completely new environment- you might be far from home, you might not know anyone there, this might be the first time you've been without your family/friends for an extended period of time. It can be very easy to shut yourself in and stay holed up in your room and not really talk to anyone (been there, done that). The first few weeks are when people are most open to talking to new people and making new friends and establishing their friend groups, so take advantage of it. Go hang out in the dorm lounges/common areas sometimes instead of in your room. Talk to some of your dormmates- you're going to be near them for an entire year, and lots of people find their first great group of friends in their fellow dormmates (I know I did). When you're about to go eat, swing by some of their rooms- chances are they'll leave their doors open the first few weeks, and ask if they want to join you. Stuff like this really helps. 

You're not just restricted to dorm friends, however- clubs are a great way to meet new people. I met another great group of friends when I joined concert band. Clubfest is great for this- they hold it at the beginning of every year in Barton Hall- you can go around and see all the different clubs that Cornell has to offer, and hopefully find one that fits your interests. Chances are, if you find one you like, you'll be able to click well with the members!

Best of luck! College can be a difficult transition, and a solid support system in your friends can really help you do well here and feel like you belong.




Have a car




Find friends to be insane together with.

No, but for more serious input, I honestly was never a part of the "nature heals" crowd, considering I had lived in pretty urban areas most of my life before Cornell, but the fresh air and just taking walks around lakes or trails here is so nice and relaxing. Even during the winter, as long as there isn't snow actively falling, there are lots of pretty places where you can kinda just get lost and forget about your stress for a few minutes.




Well the Cornell WiFi doesn’t block porn so...




Hang out with friends. Working adjacent to people, even each on our own things, just feels so much better than trying to grind things out alone. Then, when we're done, we play games and unwind. Not gonna pretend like this is perfect for everybody, but it sure helped me recover some semblance of sanity.




Meditate. After about 19 years of not caring to meditate, I'm at the point where I can sit still for about 10 minutes. It helps.m

Namgyal Monastery, 1.5 mile away from IC, has 5:15-6:00 meditation sessions MWF, they almost surely have it during the year; 15 minutes of chanting Tibetian prayers each at the beginning of the end, and 15 minutes of silent sitting. I don't know of convenient public transportation strategies to get here because I only went this summer by car.




The gym!

Literature shows that exercise is a great stress reliever and a promoter of long-term mental well-being. Further, as long as you don't take it too far, it is really good for your physical health (which can get bogged down by stress, sleep deprivation, caffeine, etc.). 

I personally really enjoy weightlifting/bodybuilding -- it has helped tremendously as a stress-reliever and as a time of self-meditation (I almost always work out alone). You definitely don't need to take up weights, though - running (or elliptical), swimming, rock-climbing, a club sport, etc. are all completely available. 

It's got one of the best input/output ratios, too. The standard amount of time to exercise is 5-6 hours a week. There's 168 hours in a week. You really can't beat that in terms of 'getting out what you put in.'




Screaming into the abyss as you walk over the bridges to north after prelims as a freshman.




Cry




Cornell Cinema is my home away from home. This year the cinema will offer a "low-price all-access pass to students, faculty, staff and the community this fall – at only $10 for graduate & professional students, $20 for undergrads and $30 for others." https://cinema.cornell.edu/news/cornell-cinema-plans-new-all-access-passes-receives-five-year-funding




I try to make time for hobbies. It's pretty easy to lose yourself between school and hanging out with friends. Having some alone time to do things I've always enjoyed keeps me grounded.




Seconding the nature points mentioned here. Getting off campus (not necessarily away-away, just away from the university buildings/centerpoints of stress) usually helps me also get out of an obsessive/stressed headspace. It sounds super cliche, but sometimes fresh air and nature really can make a difference when it comes to self-care. 

If I have a free afternoon, I like to take route 10 downtown and just walk around the commons for a little. The shops are really cute, and if you're a food/cooking = comfort person like me, F. Oliver's has some awesome infused oils and vinegars (also mustards, I believe) that are fun to sample and dream up recipes for.




Drink.




Unpopular opinion but Gold is fantastic. Yes, he’s intense and scary but if you take his seminar classes you get to know him better and see how crazy intelligent he is. I took both his political philosophy and ethical philosophy classes and honestly the deep discussions and small class sizes make you learn a ton, would recommend!




[deleted]




Brian Lucas is a goon, ez A+




This is why we need the swim test




Last call photoshop skills exposed




South Hill looks taller in the photo.




[Real Place](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reschensee)




I have Verizon and it’s very good, but I don’t use it very much because I’m almost always on campus wifi.




The general consensus is that Verizon and AT&T (and subsidiaries of them) get the best service on campus, with T-Mobile and Sprint being fairly spotty.

I use Cricket (feeds off of AT&T's towers) and I've never really had an issue, with calls or data.




Verizon.




Realize that when you're on campus wifi, you can use wifi calling, even if there's no data signal.

FWIW, I'm a T-Mobile customer, as is my Cornell student, and we seem to get pretty good service. I was posting to Instagram all over campus and from Taughannock Falls. I don't live there, though.




Lemme know too bc I have Sprint




I have Sprint and an Android phone, and it's fine.

I would say the only case where you should be worried is if you have T-Mobile, especially if you have an Android. 

iPhones will be using iMessage through campus wifi, but Android RCS messages aren't great yet.




I use Mint Mobile. It borrows the T-mobile network and is p good




I have tmobile and I always have better service than people with At&t and sometimes verizon. Only a bit weaker in north campus but still good enough. I don't know why u say it sux




Depends on the type of class, honestly. If it's a CS class that only opened up to everyone during Add period, then might happen. If it was open to everyone during pre-enroll and wasn't full, then it's anyone's guess imo. My experience with those classes and Add/Drop has been pretty good in general




not as intense as pre-enroll, no worries




First day of add/drop isn't super important usually, since spots will open up later on during the add period. A lot of people will just try out a class for a week or two then drop it.




Incoming freshman here so I'm not 100% sure either, but here's instructions for the book list: https://www.cornellstore.com/textbooks-by-schedule-instructions

Personally, I found PDFs on lib gen of my books, and I'm waiting until classes actually start to see if professors require us to have hard copies or anything like that!




I would recommend just waiting until classes start because 1) you might change classes, 2) the professor doesn’t always require you to own the textbook and 3) you might meet someone who has the pdf.




You’ll get an email from the Cornell Store about how to access your book list. You can also just go to the store once you arrive and they’ll help you print the list. From there, I recommend searching the internet to see if you can get better prices on used books or rentals. Or, if you’re really lucky, you can just find a PDF of the book somewhere.




It will usually also show up in the syllabus, but you should look at the list through the Cornell store before classes start.




If you are planning on torrenting the books yeah, otherwise you can just chill until first day if classes and check what the professor say.




No




It's cause we're starting a week later though I believe




Context https://registrar.cornell.edu/exams/fall-final-exam-schedule




When are they normally? (I’m an incoming freshman). My latest one is dec 19




Fakkkkkkk




They’re not that late. When I was a freshman, sophomore finals would run until Dec 22nd, 23rd. Only recently have they thought of releasing us before a couple of days before Christmas




I’m pretty sure Cornell does not technically offer an MS in HCI. The closest program would be the MPS in Information Science concentrating in UX Design. I did that program which is only 1 year long and you definitely get to take a lot of HCI classes as well as possibly do research with some profs if you’re active about it.

Link: https://prod.infosci.cornell.edu/masters/mps




I’d recommend just bringing a 100-200ft power cable to bootleg an outlet.




Hoy Garage has a charging station that's free to use.




None of the student parking spots have EV charging. You're going to have to go to the charging stations from time to time which is going to be a hassle I imagine.




You’re a freshman? What? No way!




They will send you one complimentary Big Red Blunt in 5-6 business days




lmao if so we are both in biggggg trouble buddy hahhaha




Marijuana is pretty much decriminalized in NY now (possession up to 2 oz is just a violation, I think) just don’t be stupid with using it and stink up your dorm




yes you automatically have 1 JA now




Sold!




Ill take pm me




Music is banned on campus and in the city of Ithaca.




Someone had a post about this already. Search music in this subreddit.




It really depends on who you meet, but some people don’t have much time cuz they too worried about academics :/ dm if u wanna talk about music




I’m also an incoming freshman, and there’s a cool jazz band if you’re interested




You should be fine




Most of these jobs you don’t need experience. They are just looking for employees who arrive on time & do what is expected.  Aside from income it’s a great way to meet new people




working at a cafe on campus is also cool! depending on the place, you can get a free drink/food every shift. especially helped me since i have a caffeine addiction




snag that library job and get paid to do your homework




If you want the possibility of earning great tips, check out working at the Statler Hotel as a server or at the bellstand.

If you’re looking for jobs where you can get paid to do HW tho, check out the RPCC or Appel service centers or the service centers down on west.




I am an international grad student and used to play a lot of pool during my freshman and sophomore years. I’d love to join but i’m completely out of practice to the extent that even the most basic rules are a blur right now.




I would love to! I am not that good, but I am serious about playing amd getting better.




I’m down, my friend just got a table this summer and I played for the first time. I’m garbage but id still play




Lets do it, its by far my favorite thing to do with a beer




I’m not the best, but would be down to learn and get better.




I'd be interested in that sort of club. I feel like I'm kind of good at pool but it might just be that everyone I've played with is not that great at it.




Incoming freshman, I like to play a lot




I’m down: I’m living in 112 edgemoor and they have a table if anybody ever wants to come play.




I would love to learn!




Also a big pool player, let’s get a club going




PSA: you can play for free at RPCC!




Seems like you should start a club OP! You'll definitely get funding as long as you lay out a clear budget and generate enough interest




does the discord link work?




Super awesome and super chill! It's only once a week for four weeks, so most of the semester you don't have to worry about going to a PE. 

You'll get to walk some of the awesome trails in the state parks around Ithaca and explore how much fucking land Cornell actually owns. 

You should be ready to walk for around three to four hours per hike, but the sights are amazing and it passes by in an instant with good company! Ten out of ten would recommend. 

I'd take it again if I had time!




It's good if you want to spend six hours of your Sunday doing a three hour hike. 

Depending on weather it can be nice but it's frustrating because everyone knows they're there for a certain amount of time rather than having to finish a certain hike. Therefore, the hikes aren't as ambitious or interesting as they could be but they still take up a lot of your time.




1) Sort of—you’ll check in at the House Office in the lobby and they’ll give you your keys.

2) The vast majority of the traffic will be up on North, you shouldn’t have any issue moving into West on the 23rd or morning of 24th if you want to. It won’t be empty, but certainly shouldn’t be an issue.

3) Yeah, I had no issue with getting my real permit in time (actually, iirc, it was in my mailbox when I moved in)

4) No issue parking in a WD lot as long as you have the permit. Good luck getting a spot behind Noyes, though. You’ll probably have better luck in the big WD lot on University—I found the Noyes lot to almost always be full last year.




An RA answering question 2, they hired a company to lock down campus, if you’re not on the move in list there’s an extra large chance they won’t let you in. But starting the night before Friday move in there’s no one in or out. We don’t even be able to order food




I grew up in Phoenix and moved to Ithaca from Vegas. You want a big, thick, long coat. The giant LL Bean parka that hits mid-calf is popular. Cornell is a lot of hills that turn to ice quickly in storms so don't skimp on your snow boots, either. Mittens are warmer than gloves. Get a few thick ski caps and scarves and plan to keep your jacket hood over them. You will adjust but it takes some time and you'll be much happier when you're comfortable.




if you’re strapped for cash, i strongly recommend checking out the dump and run sale going on during orientation week/first weekend of the semester. i got all my winter gear there (boots, jacket, lots of sweaters, gloves), each item under $15 usually. they’ve lasted me a long time! this year it’s at the mall but the bus ride there isn’t that bad tbh it’s definitely a good option if you don’t have $300 lying around for one single jacket




Ithaca mostly hovers around freezing with the occasional cold spell (<15F) or warm spell (>50F). 
Down and downtek jackets are so insulated now you can get great warmth in a lightweight jacket. On the 40F days you can just use it unzipped. Think about if you want one with a hood or will wear a hat/scarf cause there are days you’ll want that. Also make sure you have some extra room in the jacket to throw on a sweater or extra layer for those really cold days.

So many brands to choose from (EMS, Eddie Bauer, Patagonia, North Face, Arcteryx), there is an EMS in town and some places to get North Face jackets.




It’s probably worth it to shell out a bit of money for some quality boots, since it’s cold, icy, and hilly. Timberlands are great, and you can get them or shoes like them for a decent price at stores like Kohl’s. Also I highly recommend getting a winter hat and/or earmuffs that you like, as well as some thin but high quality gloves. Those shouldn’t be too expensive. Use common sense for coats, ideally get one that’s thin but still insulated well.




my friend did green world blue planet and said it was the easiest A she’s ever gotten at cornell




Petition Status: Denied   
Reason: Insufficient Preparation




🌽L




YES PLS




No




Why though?




Wallace format: “What the fuck did you bring upon this cursed land”




To answer your question, some of the newer lecture halls do, but many classrooms don't. It depends on the location of the class, and then might also depend on the number taking it and the professor.

In fact, speaking of professors, some disallow laptops entirely, so I recommend having paper and pencil as a backup for your laptop regardless of battery life.




For the most part, depends on the class.




What kind of laptop?

Most likely you can replace the battery with one that has more capacity. You can also use a power bank to charge your laptop. Try searching for laptop power banks on amazon. It'll be easier if your laptop uses USB-C charging and you get a power bank with USB-C Power Delivery.

[This one looks pretty good](https://www.amazon.com/Portable-TSA-Approved-Universal-31200mAh-External/dp/B07S7TK88B) and is pretty universal. [This one has a lot more capacity](https://www.amazon.com/Krisdonia-50000mAh-Portable-Battery-Charger/dp/B074N1B15F/) for the same price, but you might need to figure out what adapter (included) to use if  you don't have USB-C charging.




Yep. CTB is overpriced and mediocre. Bad coffee, bad sandwiches, bad bagels.




Assuming this was at the collegetown location?

Interested if this is also the case at the other locations in East Hill and in the Commons (and at the Ithaca Bakery locations)




Also, it takes eons to get your food. I waited 30 minutes to get my sandwich yesterday




CTB < Trillium/Terrace anyways




so do I.




Ye




I took it in the fall to get it over with and then could take all the physics courses in succession. That was just my preference though. I don't think it makes a huge difference when you take it.




Definitely spring




most people here aren't 'highly intelligent' they just have wicked work ethics

which also comes with mental disability

lol




I’m really surprised Cornell isn’t lower tbh. Of all the ivies, I’ve heard that Columbia and Cornell are the worst for student mental health and stress. On the other hand I’m surprised Brown is as low as it is, everyone seemed so chill there. Guess you can’t really judge a book by its cover.




it seems that it refers to take home exams, papers, projects, etc




sucks for the freshmen

...

wait im a freshman




F




Why Dickson for sophomores?  It’s literally surrounded by other Freshman dorms (CKB, Donlon, High Rises).  That makes zero sense.




s o p h o m o r e v i l l a g e




Wait they're gonna require sophomores to live on campus? Ahahahahahaha.


Enjoy your sleep, maybe a good time to force yourself to 8AMs.




Appel field will be gone?? Sad




When will construction be completed?




It's a university campus. There's always going to be some inconvenient construction project happening.




At least us current freshmen won’t be forced to stay in dorms our sophomore year if we don’t want to, it’s going into effect later




This is crazy, I didn't realize those policies were being implemented, let alone anything was actually getting done there. Glad to be a sophomore this year, but jeez that sounds like a bad time.




>ending in 2022

>Once complete, it will be mandatory for freshmen and sophomores to live on campus.

Guys, the incoming freshman will be seniors by the time this policy is implemented. We're fine.




fuck




Check out zimride




This has Trillium:
netnutrition.dining.cornell.edu

I was never able to find anything for Terrace.




Since Terrace is run by Statler and not Cornell Fining, it doesn’t show up on NetNutrition. But I’ll ask around about getting nutrition info for terrace published somewhere




The only major bank on campus is Bank of America, and even still we only have ATMs (no physical locations). Not amazing, but better than nothing at all.




Chase is about to open a branch in the commons. CFCU boutta run out of business.




https://www.chase.com/digital/mobile-deposits




I opened an M&T account, which has locations around NY. It's worked out for me.




If you have a job that pays via direct deposit, I’d recommend Ally—they’re totally online but you can withdraw from any ATM and get up to $10/month in ATM fee reimbursement. The only downside is you can’t deposit cash, but otherwise I love it (plus the high-yield savings account pays 1.9% interest)




I'm guessing if you just got your grade you took the summer course. Just fyi summer courses move through the material quicker but are easier. Also b- is not an awful grade. The average I believe is a B during the semester.




A lot of people really struggle with 1920. Plenty of students would be happy with a C in that class. You’re fine.




1920 was the hardest course i’ve taken at Cornell. Went through all of hs acing every math class without an issue, took 1920 my first semester at Cornell and barely passed. You’re definitely not out of the norm and i can’t imagine the summer version being any easier




They practically give everyone A’s in 1920




Few days to a week before classes begin.




Should be August 26th




This hasn’t been my experience, but wanted to say props to you for considering coming back in the first place




You go for it, I'm sure that it will have a very different flavor amd you being more experienced and having seen life closer will have much more to share and a new approach to learning and enjoying college




I'm actually in a similar position. I'm returning to Cornell after 3 years on leave and only completing my first year. Though I'm terrified, I'm mostly excited. It was always my plan to go back to Cornell and what has helped me is realizing I will regret it if I don't go back and at least try to finish my degree at Cornell. I just keep thinking that the fear of not finishing something is greater than the fear of actually doing it.




Wait until you see tuition price 👍🏻




You get so much perspective after working in the world for a while. Good luck, and welcome back!!




I personally didn’t take a break at Cornell, but someone that I met at Cornell did. I think he took a year or two off to work a bit outside of school. He said it wasn’t very tough to jump back into academics, but it was a little rough socially since most of his friends had already graduated. So, he had to make new friends and essentially start over. Definitely worth it at the end of the day to have the degree and still meet new people!




This only lists prelims held Tuesday and Thursday nights, not in-class prelims




Are they done in-class? If so, they might not show up on that site - in my experience, I only saw evening prelims there.




That list is not exhaustive.




Day Hiking is great! 4 times during the semester (4 weeks in a row) you'll go out and hike a bunch of trails around Ithaca (Buttermilk, Arboretum, Taughannock). It's super chill and three to four hours of walking is quite the workout, but it goes by super quickly with good company and awesome scenery. 

You're probably looking for something more structured and weekly, but it's definitely inspired me to be more outdoorsy with my spare time, if that's something you're interested in.




I thought some of the martial arts classes taught my Kevin Seaman were an appropriate amount of work and easiness. Specifically the two I took: Jeet Kun Do and Filipino Kali  
JKD is slightly more strenuous than Kali, because he makes you do warm up laps, pushups, and situps before starting the class. But I also found it to be more fun. 

Filipino Kali is essentially stick fighting. There isn't much lower body movement for the most part, but your arms get a nice light workout. 

Both classes are interesting and fun to learn and not super strenuous, and really help with learning some self defense! Highly recommend.




Rock climbing!




Walking tours is surprisingly fun and interesting. For the most part you get to set your own pace.




Principles of weight training is a great class to learn some fitness principles and workouts to lose weight! I lost 10 lbs with guidance from the class!




TKD is pretty fun. It kept me in shape freshmen spring.




You should also get in touch with your local Team RWB. I volunteered with them for a bit in my hometown. It’s a good organization and it looks like there’s an Ithaca chapter.




Due to the way the parking permits work this year, I don’t think you can move in early without a specific reason. Your time slot is just what you get. You could try hotels or Airbnb, but they fill up fast so anything is probably really expensive now.  I wouldn’t feel bad about missing the events on Friday either, since none of them are essential.  If there’s an event you really wish you could’ve gone to, maybe reach out to the group running it to see what you missed. Also just be polite and communicate with your roommate. I’m not exactly sure what you mean by “bad side” either. Unless you’re in a forced triple, I don’t really see what could be different.




You have to contact the housing office. Move-in slots work differently this year.




I’m not totally sure how it’s going to work this year, but in the past, OLs were very lenient about when you can move in. My guess is that there are going to be actual Cornell staff at all the buildings this year enforcing the timeslots, so it’s not likely you can move in any earlier than your slot unless housing can change it for you.




Contact housing for a definitive answer. Mention the specific events you need to be there for.

https://living.cornell.edu/live/contactus/

Hotels are probably booked, but check airbnb, there may be places available up to the last minute.




Thanks all. I'll be moving in at the designated time.




Tf is a habitica group




https://habitica.com/static/home




I was crazy enough to bike through all of my 5 years at Cornell including the winter. Biking this campus, especially from west, is a rude awakening. The level of fitness required to do this will enlarge your legs significantly. You will be out of breathe every time you arrive at your destinations. You will (hopefully) carry a helmet everywhere you go until it is your signature fashion accessory. You'll have the occasional close run-ins with buses/cars when construction confuses people on the road. On parents weekend, just assume every car wants to mow you down. Cornell cops will give you trouble (and possibly a ticket) for biking on the sidewalk or through pedestrian crossing. In the winter, the snow pushes you out of the bike lane. Also the cold air hurts your face and lungs. Have you ever exfoliated your face with hail? I have. Ithaca weather is tough on bikes and you may need repairs within a semester and a half.

If you hate travel time as much as I do, this will be worth it. The amount of times a bike has helped me narrowly meet a deadline are hard to count. Not to mention it allowed me to attend classes that are far away from each other with little travel time in between. I've forgotten meetings and traveled all the way across campus in <10 minutes.




You was Ubering around campus? Tf...
Walk from West to Eng quad is easy/quick.

Biking from West is a bad idea. Just use the bus, it's cheaper than Uber and almost as reliable.




yeah biking uphill seems kinda daunting tbh...maybe an electric scooter might be more helpful




nah




I bike the hill to the engineering quad from West and I also do the climb up college a lot. It's not too bad most of the year, just be aware that you will be a disgusting sweaty mess in August and September. Moreso than you already would walking up. Your quads will burn if you don't bike a lot already, but it doesn't require that much athletic ability.




The hills look a lot more brutal than they are. I see elderly folks crushing it up the steepest hills, no problem. Just warm up to it like everything else and use your gears. If you get tired just take the bus, each bus has an easy to use bike rack on the front.

Winter isn't too bad. I rode through the whole year, and it was fine, I see a lot of people biking all winter. Just wear your 'PPE', helmet, gloves, maybe some [goggles](https://smile.amazon.com/Yellow-Motorcycle-Riding-Goggles-Microfiber/dp/B01M1HOEDJ/ref=sr_1_10?keywords=biking+goggles&qid=1565958242&s=gateway&sr=8-10). There's no shame in taking the bus sometimes, all the busses have a bike rack on the front. A hybrid or mountain bike is probably ideal, but I have seen some road bikes in use. Keep an extra tube, pump, and tire levers. There is also a nice bike pump in front of Bus Stop Bagels that is nice to use when you just need to top up some pressure.

You may not need to bring a bike, apparently there is a bike share program, [Big Red Bikes](https://bigredbikes.cornell.edu/), but I haven't looked into it, seems interesting.

Hope you have fun beefing up those quads :P

\- get a **lightweight** bike, travel light, wear protective gear, carry water, stay warm, take the bus with bike if needed.

\- edit: has anyone tried using lime bike? is it easier to get up the hills on them?




My answer to this vexing problem: a 50cc gas-powered scooter that costs less than $100/year to insure and does not require a motorcycle license.




Tbh everyone I know that brought a bike to campus quickly stopped using it. I would only bring it if you’re into biking in the first place or if it won’t cost you anything to move/store the bike.




If you can afford it, look into a **Brompton B75**. It's a high quality folding bicycle. It folds down to a reasonable size and would be easy to store in a dorm or office. Costs about $1000. I'm not aware if there are any Brompton dealers in Central New York, though.

https://us.brompton.com/bikes/b75-bike




The Johnson!




Go to Fuertes Observatory, it opens today at 8pm! Lots of cool history there.




See if you can get in the greenhouse at Plant Sci. Dairy Bar. Take them to open hours at Lindseth and get a climbing lesson!




It's a bit farther from campus, but museum of the earth is also pretty cool imo




The Bailey Conservatory should be open! Beautiful plants!




The Farmer's Market is also pretty nice in the rain. If you get there right when it opens (9?) it's way less crowded.




I think you can just give them your Student ID number and they can look you up!




Are you picking up your deliveries after you move in? Because they’ll give you your student ID when you move in, but if you’re coming earlier then your ID number should probably be enough I think.




I don’t think they’ll take your netID just cause they always ask for the physical Cornell ID. I think the 7 digit number should be enough




If it’s got your name on it fucking demand it. Rpcc student staff won’t help you at all but if it’s got your name on it they can find it and give it to
You. Annoying you have to make a fuss about it but they should train those students better and pay them better.




From what I’ve gathered it is less desirable than getting a summer internship, and for that reason you may be able to secure more exclusive positions due to the nature of the lack of supply in students. 

Cornell does have some good pipelines for co-op




If you can reasonably do it I would say it's worth it. From what I understand it is a lot easier to get a co-op during the school year because the candidate pool is smaller as compared to summer internships. Cornell also has access to a lot of good companies for co-ops, which could transition into a future internship/job from the same company if you like it.

Basically it's an easier-to-get internship you can add to your resume as long as you're cool with missing a semester of school.




Yes! I participated in co-op and it was a great experience. Cornell has a good relationship with some strong companies, and to the company, you’re more valuable because they know they’ll be getting you back a second time. And being in a workplace during the school is gives you a better feel for the company—you feel less like just one of the interns, because at many places during the summer there can be a lot of interns.




3110 is a basic stats class, no econ knowledge required. 3120 is considerably more difficult but builds off of 3110 and is very applicable, esp when it comes to reading academic papers. 3030 and 3040 are very professor dependant. there are a lot opinions on these to be found by searching the subreddit. In my experience, 3030 was a shitshow where I didn't learn anything and didn't do so well (Troshkin) while 3040 was a bit of a grind but more straightforward and enjoyable.




I think most people double major it with another major (unless they're going for Econ grad school) so you can sort of get an idea about the difficulty.




Have you tried https://listings.offcampusliving.cornell.edu ??
Google’s usually a faster resource than Reddit 😶 your chances/options might be better here too




What a rip.




i highly doubt theres anything to do about this since everyone literally has to do it. No other option but to suck it up and get it done. 

there are some easier ones that are mostly just watching movies and writing essays that aren't as reading intensive if that was the issue. If she's still teaching FWSs this year, I suggest trying to get into a class taught by Ewa Bachminska. Super easy grader, easy movie courses (tho a bit strange). 

Good luck.




Take WRIT1370- it’s meant for people who have a hard time with academic writing, meets only twice a week for 50 mins, and is S/U. It’s mostly international kids who get to take it but you can also say you had a hard time with your last FWS and got bad grades on your essays




I wish I could've taken more FWS, would've helped my GPA.

But anyways, as others said, it's a requirement, maybe see if you can take it at another college or at a CC and transfer credit if you think there's no FWS here that you're gonna be satisfied with.




You can take ENGL2800 or 2810 but it's not necessarily going to be any easier. Try asking your friends what TAs they had and if they were easy try to get into their classes




No




Take the $$ unless u need credit for some sort of graduation requirement.




They're different --

You can do research for pay in 2 ways:

* professor pays you (he uses part of his research funding to pay you)
* external funding, e.g. ELI (you get paid by ELI and the prof doesn't have to use any of his research funding to pay you)

Or, you can do research for credit: you earn X number of academic credits, which may be for a letter grade. E.g. you get 3 credits of an "A" for a semester of engineering research.

As far as I know/have read, you cannot do both.




It's harder to get money during the semesters (more competitive), I typically get the credit as a gpa boost lol.




If research fulfills a class credit, such as INFO 4900 fulfilling a major approved elective credit, then do it for credit or use it as a GPA boost. Otherwise, apply for the funding.




No not at all closest student parking is the vet school no one other than select faculty can park on central. Then you also need to pay for parking in college town unless you live on outskirts of ctown and can park on streets.




Nowhere. You should be able to handle the five minute walk from college town to Central campus. If you can't, you're too soft to go to Cornell.




There are a few pre-approved study abroad options for engineers where (I believe) they have already audited the courses so you can be sure the credit will transfer. I think there’s about 3 of these programs and the courses are taught in English. Again my memory is very hazy because I was never too focused on study abroad, but I think one is at the Technion in Israel, one is somewhere in Spain, and I have no clue where the third is. You can also do other programs I think but it might require significantly more work and planning to be sure the courses transfer over well and that you get all your prereqs for high level courses done on time. But bottom line it’s definitely a possibility and there should be info sessions about it sometime during the fall.

Edit: google “Cornell Engineering study abroad” and this is the exact first result: 

https://www.engineering.cornell.edu/students/undergraduate-students/special-programs/study-abroad




You could study abroad during the summer! I know that Coe has a study abroad program in Hong Kong during the summer and the tuition is waived. I believe it’s offered every year but I don’t think I saw it on their website, but they’ll send emails about it during the spring. It’s also possible to take classes over a summer to get enough credit to graduate.




I personally have not studied abroad (in retrospect i definitely could have made it work, but it wasn't a priority for me), but I know some engineers who have (BEEs, CS, etc.). If you plan it out in advance and talk to an advisor, it is doable for sure. I would also recommend looking into summer study abroad programs as well; I know ChemE has a London one. It definitely isn't unheard of, but it's good you're planning early.

As a side note, I'm a creative writing minor in COE and its super doable and fun! PM me if you have any additional questions about that!




Theres a summer in rome for creative writing




I think most languages don't allow S/U, but if there are any, it should be possible to fulfill the requirement.




German has allowed the intro track to be taken S/U before, though I’ve heard that they’re debating getting rid of the S/U option. Not sure what the current status is.




Can mandarin be, for example?




Oh no, they will most definitely expel you




😳😳 guess someone is rescinded 😳😳




The morning you move into your dorm u can go to the office and they’ll take ur photo and issue u an ID card on the spot




No ID = No Entry.

Please enroll to a CC asap.




It's actually sweet. I love it




smh summer reddit




I feel like Student Center is Saesee Tiin or Agen Kolar in this scenario.




*2PB _(you can see this "limit" by looking at storage used in Google Photos)_




owo whats dis?




I mentioned this and someone from a state school was like "it's nice, but since it expires when we graduate, you gotta be careful". poor kid




hell yeah




Swapped with someone just before the semester ended. All we had to do was both email the housing office our information and written confirmation that we wanted to change rooms and the swap was finalized over the summer. Super easy, but I have no idea if this process would be harder this late




I haven’t done this but it’s a process through housing. You could do it unofficially I guess, but I can’t imagine you wouldn’t get caught and fined a butt ton of money for it.




I have no experience with it at all, but I would imagine you could get some issues if your name is on the contact for someone else’s room. For example if they break anything or get charged any fines, you’d probably be on the hook for them, especially repairs after move-out. My guess is they would just charge to the name on the contract. Just something to think about before doing it unofficially.




Relatively easy A, but not A+. You get a different exercise every 2 weeks or so (some take longer than others) and there’s almost no out of class work. The final is a review of all of the work you’ve done over the semester.




Wait until the middle of fall semester, then complain to the ppl in charge.




Yeah I feel like mine took a minute to show up. Was sometime into first semester if I recall correctly.

You’ve basically got 8 semesters to figure this out (but I wouldn’t delay that much)




The card is digital and you have to print it out to carry it on you, but I normally just show providers a screenshot on my phone. Try this [link](https://www.aetnastudenthealth.com/en/school/867890/members/print-id-card.html#)




You're right that most insurance companies provide a physical card. For SHP, you have to printout the card yourself. Looks like someone else beat me to the link. 

If you need to go to a clinic/doctor's office/hospital/pharmacy/etc they usually ask you over the phone for your insurance info. You can just show the insurance printout when you get there.




They used to let your order free physical cards just by calling and digital PDF is available online.

I think now it's 100% digital.




I’m not sure about walking, but I know route 15 (Southside Shopper) goes to Walmart from the Seneca Street commons bus stop. It only runs every hour so you have to time your shopping accordingly.




It is possible to walk to Walmart - pretty safe and there are sidewalks, but it's quite a hike and you're going to have a rough time carrying anything back to campus.  Google Maps has the tcat system on it so you can use that to see if there are busses going there




You can walk but it's gonna take you like 45 mins to get there and good luck coming back up, going downhill is easy but uphill is a pain and if you bought anything bulky then it's almost impossible (I did similar walking trips during summer I stayed because I wanted to lose some weight).

Take the 10, 30, 32, 31, 72, etc. (any bus that goes to commons, pretty much most of them) then take the 15 and it'll drop you off right near Walmart, there's also Chipotle/Panera/Wegmans/Tops/Staples over there.

Going to Target is much easier with bus, no need to transfer bus.




Just go to target




Use Google maps




A lot of upperclassmen have cars, and if you make some friends that are upperclassmen, I’m sure some wouldn’t mind bringing you along to Walmart next time they go downtown




From campus you can get on the 30, take it to the commons and then get on the 15, which will take you to Walmart. You can walk but it’s pretty far and not really worth it imo because it takes so long to walk there




Ask for an autograph




[deleted]




No idea who Strogatz is (I took 2930 with Ritz last semester), but the biggest tip I have is to brush up on Calc 2 stuff, like integration by parts. 

Class was straightforward for me otherwise - take notes, and read the textbook / ask your TA if you get stuck.




Harder than my expectations??? Or rather I overestimated my own abilities.... big rip




Harder than I expected, but not just academics. Especially first year don't underestimate the adjustment from home/HS to college.




I think it totally depends what major/school you’re in. Some departments will pass everyone and baby you others are trying hard to weed kids out in the first year.




Was easier than I expected, but it is mostly because I came from a really rough competitive high school. From the people I know it seems like difficulty of hs and whether you over/underestimate difficulty of college are pretty closely related.




Cornell is definitely not an easy school, but as long as you put in the work, you'll achieve what you want.




Difficulty was about what I expected, but I didn't realize how unprepared I was despite what I expected. Adjusting to college in general was a challenge but going in for my second year I feel a lot more prepared.




My HS was shit tier, like almost shutting down tier, so I struggled to adjust, took much longer than others to adjust to the rigor, played catch up for all 4 years. Everyone has a different experience but overall Cornell ain't that easy.




Easier until my discipline slipped up and I realized that Cornell doesn’t have the same academic safety net as my high school did




Pretty much the same as what I expected. Much harder than my highschool but not soul-crushingly difficult.




I went to a pretty good public hs, and Cornell is about as much work (so I guess easier than my worst fears?)

the classes are obviously harder than hs (more studying), but I get to learn things that engage me, and I don't have to sit still for 7 hours straight, so I'm suffering less




Definitely am doing far better here than I expected




Easier than I expected, my HS was much harder




Try Craigslist or the Cornell Facebook “Free and For Sale” group.




The app “OfferUp”




[https://www.facebook.com/groups/908218012546069/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/908218012546069/)

[https://www.facebook.com/groups/296525947345411/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/296525947345411/)

[https://www.facebook.com/groups/FreeAndForSaleCornell/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/FreeAndForSaleCornell/)

these are the ones I know of




Damn I know horse niggas are generally rich but are you really ganna use Uber that many times a week 

Anyway my experience has been 15-20 min wait for Uber during working hours




I noticed there’s a bus route that runs from Cornell to the equestrian center. Routes 51, 52, and 92 go there pretty directly. I recommend downloading the TCAT app (MyStop) to check it out. Obviously it might not work with your schedule, but you can probably save a lot of money even if you only use it one way.




Took CALS wine last semester, they give up to 20% of your grade in extra credit. But Cals focuses on more of vine growth and HOTEL is more focused on the wines and not some much how grapes grow 🤦🏽‍♂️😂




I liked Vein because it's 3 credits and it's letter grades so it helps, a bit more work but still easy A.




Why even ask here? Call the appropriate professors and guidance counselors ASAP.




Send em now and hope they're all accepted. That's the only logical thing you could do now.




You could absolutely join a project team. Depending on the team, however, you may end up struggling to find a role. On my team, for example, roles are given out early in the summer. If you were to join as a senior, you may find yourself picking up whatever work is available. Go to recruiting events to ask members of that team what new members typically do, as it varies greatly from team to team.




I was a freshman last year and I asked s project team if I could join and they said yes so i’m pretty sure it’s possible. I don’t know which one though.




English department FSWs have big workloads




Can I just say FWS




it all really depends on the instructor




where did you see what FWS you’re in




Dont think so looks like you’re SOL




You can likely find it on Amazon or another online store, then ship it to your dorm. At least that's what my friend does for this specific Indian hair oil.




I’ve seen some in Green Castle before but the selection seemed pretty small so it might not have what you want




Have you visited both schools?




To start off, congrats on getting the TO option. I'll be a sophomore at the hotel school this semester and I can give you my two cents on the matter. So make money and live a life you dreamed of, is to put it lightly... vague. If you mean by making money you want a six figure salary and huge bonuses starting out of undergrad, it's totally possible but there are a lot of things you'd want to factor in. Pretty much all of the highest paying positions are in Investment Banking which has a pretty bad rap for 80+ hour work weeks and high drop out rates. (Both of my cousins left within 2 years). It's also a very competitive area because people are attracted to the large salary and prestige that Goldman Sachs puts on your resume. There's always a constant pressure at school to network, have high grades, and find internships. The good thing is that the Hotel School has an extensive alumni network and with a specialisation in real estate, many hotelies find internships and work their ways into the finance industry. This is the main draw over UCF in my opinion because the Hotel School is considered a "target school" by big banks. If you're looking at a more traditional hospitality job you'll have to settle for smaller paycheck. You won't be poor mind you, but starting off you won't be buying bottles of dom every weekend. A lot of people change their minds going through college and doing different internships so don't feel like you have to have everything already figured out. The other thing I'll say about Cornell's Hotel School is that there's a lot of emphasis on work-life-fun balance. Academics aren't extremely rigorous in my opinion but classes like intro to food ops/hotel ops have practicums in the Statler which force you to learn on the fly, and expose you to different sides to hospitality. Most students also take part time jobs in the Statler which pays nicely depending on where you are and there are leadership tracks that let students work up to real management levels and take initiative. If you have specific questions feel free to DM me.




Hey feel free to DM me! I was a TO for the hotel school and would love to answer any questions that you may have!




Hey feel free to DM me! I was a TO for the hotel school and would love to answer any questions that you may have!




This is ultimately a pretty simple decision. Unless money truly isn’t an issue for your family AND your expenses for university are set aside in a specific account, go to the university that offers you the most aid. Take on as little debt as possible. Take a look at the median, early – career income for the positions you are interested in. If you’re going to take on more than 50% of one year’s salary in debt, don’t do it. Even if you’re one of the most talented people on the planet, you’re still likely to make a meager salary straight out of this program and you don’t want to stress yourself out with loans, particularly if you’re not likely to work for an employer that qualifies for the public student loan forgiveness program.




Hello from a current SHA student! I can't speak for UCF because I've never been to or met any students/grads, but I can try to give you my opinion on studying hospitality at Cornell. Faculty are really hit/miss in SHA, there are a couple of really renowned profs that are honestly kind of not the best teachers, and some random/new professors that are actually really great. There are a lot of resources that SHA has to offer its students like the extensive alumni network and also the people in the Office of Student Services, but you really have to be proactive to seek them out by making it a priority. Otherwise, I find that getting good summer internships is still very difficult regardless of SHA's name. The people are pretty great! Definitely the best part about coming to SHA and also Cornell. It's also pretty neat that we hotelies get to learn everything a business major would plus a ton of knowledge about the hospitality industry (which means we actually have a lot of work). While there are definitely many ups-and-downs to studying at Cornell, I still rate my experience as really positive and challenging. Hope this helps!




This question is so precious




If a prof ever tries assigning me work over Winter/Summer break I'm instantly dropping that class




no




Nope! Enjoy the rest of your summer!




Given that a lot of people shuffle classes the first couple weeks of the semester, there is almost never pre-semester work that is required.




So I usually don’t get contacted about my summer homework. My mom will hear about it first through the monthly PTA meeting and then it will get formally assigned during your parent teacher conference.

If you forget to do it you might get detention during slope day or worse—sent to the principal’s office!




IDP?




I think there's a summer reading for Dyson kids. Not sure if it's required.




Yeah, it's mentioned in bottom of the to do list. Some reading and short writing assignment I think.




If you’re enrolled in CS4780 there is a placement exam on the course website due on the third day of class. If you plan to take the class and don’t know statistics, linear algebra, and multivariable calculus like the back of your hand, now’d be a good time to start.




Oh dear




Sending packages is generally pretty safe. And no need to put Cornell University- they know it's for Cornell. 

All mail gets shipped to campus, and then gets sorted and sent to its respective service center for it to be signed for and "checked in" before you pick it up. Low Rise 7 is covered by RPCC. So in general, if you're having a package shipped to you, just put down your mailing address (no Cornell needed), it'll be sent to RPCC service center, and they'll send you an email letting you know when it's ready to be picked up.




Zip code 14853 is unique to Cornell. The rest of Ithaca is 14850.




It's not more risky than shipping a computer anywhere else. It sounds like you're buying a new one, and I had to my second semester. I ordered it off of Newegg and it came in perfectly fine.




It's safer than shipping to most places in America, only way it gets lost is if the mail offices fuck up.




I ordered a laptop from B&H for my kid and had it sent directly to High Rise Five a few years ago. The only issue is that it takes like an extra day shipping time to get to Ithaca compared to, say, Albany.

Don't forget, Ithaca is a small place. I expect any reasonably experienced postal worker or UPS driver from Syracuse to Binghamton will know what Low Rise 7 in Ithaca is. Not to mention that 14853 is Cornell.

FWIW, it doesn't hurt to put "Cornell University" on the address if you want to. I'm pretty sure I did.




I took it last year and there were like 50 short fill in the blanks, a few short-response (few sentences to a paragraph or so), and a reading with an oral evaluation




the cornell class bot never there when you need it




Offered every year in the spring. Took it with Ryd last semester. It was pretty rough but interesting material. Problem was most of the class was genius seniors who knew everything already and even tho they had all gotten into a bunch of grad schools they still tried and ruined the curve.




Good class, would recommend. Anders is a very cogent lecturer and he LateXs his notes up afterwards and puts it online. The course doesn't really follow Griffiths Particle Physics, but rather his own prescription. The final project that he does is a nice way to dip your toes into HEPex stuff as well. There was a take home midterm as well as an in class final. Preps you well for Quantum Field Theory.




Would definitely recommend taking it as a senior -- IMO there should be more prereqs. (at least 3317/3327/3318 or equivalent). If you're prepared it's a great introduction to the field and the prof is very knowledgeable.




Took it with Ryd this past spring. The majority of the class is on classical field theory and focuses on Lie group symmetries in lagrangians and motivates particles/fields from there, as well as fun with Noether currents associated with U(1), SU(2), all that fun shit. You do Feynman diagram computations but you're given Feynman rules so it's just algebra. In terms of math, be expected to be good at multivariate calculus and undergrad-level quantum mechanics, but not really further. Fluency in special relativity is a must but PHYS 1116 ensures this. I had difficulty with (relativistic) tensors but you can pick this up. You most likely won't be doing any quantum field theory, no path integral or renormalization, no scattering theory. The fanciest thing you will do is "decomposing direct products of representations of SU(2) into direct sums of representations", aka learning how to read and use a table of Clebsch-Gordan coefficients and probably being asked to derive the coefficients for something like spin-1/2 X spin-1 by hand exactly once. A lot of the physics majors that came out of 3316 (which is the official prereq) and hadn't yet seen spin had to be introduced to this concept in class, so don't worry if you don't know it—it's standard undergrad QM material. Overall, it's very mathematical and I'd say probably conceptually somewhat easier than PHYS 4443 (I took the AEP version of this and have the same feeling).




I don’t see how an iPad would be any harder to bring to class than a computer




If you have the extra cash to spend, go for it. I've seen a lot of people use iPads with the pencil for taking notes rather than using notebooks, and it seems to work well for them. Wouldn't call it necessary (I've gotten by with notebooks and a laptop), but it definitely makes your bag lighter.




Go for it. I found the iPad really useful for reading and annotating textbooks. For note taking, I alternate between paper and the iPad. I only use my laptop when I need special software or as a second screen. On most days I leave my laptop at home.

&#x200B;

 I personally like the size of the 10.5in models but I've seen the base 9.7in model go for as low as $229. 

Look at it this way: Worst case scenario you don't find iPad useful and end up returning it for a full refund.




My friend actually only used an iPad for all 4 years. Kept a laptop at home he would use every once in a while. It's good in forcing you to pay attention (compared to computers) but also giving you the room to take notes or check notifications.

If you're interested, I'd also take a look at Rocket Book (sp?) Another one of my friends bought one and uses it with Microsoft OneNote a lot.




Yeah, I use an iPad for notes and textbooks. I have noteability for hand writing notes using the pencil, and definitely not illegal PDFs of textbooks which I don’t usually bother annotating. I would say it works quite well, noteability is a great app and has lots of handy features including colors, auto-snapping geometry (useful for engineering classes and sketching at least), and is searchable when it decides to cooperate with my handwriting. That being said I wouldn’t describe it as a “need,” and I usually end up bringing my laptop with me anyway. There are some things that just don’t work as well on the iPad. But I found the iPad on a good sale and it’s worked well for me so far. I would recommend the 10.5”, the smaller versions seemed a little small to write comfortably. But then again, I was looking at them back before the update that removed the bezels and stuff so I dunno really.




iPad Pro with pencil and notability is worth it. Combine that with a MacBook Pro and notability software and u can type on the MacBook and it’ll sync so u can draw on the iPad at the same time. I love this setup




Don’t miss your RA meetings tho... they make you make them up and it’s a real pain. Also they’re a good way to make friends and you have to be there anyway




Ah I remember o-week back in the good old days. Sucked on my first pierced nipple. Good times




Thanks Administration!




For mandatory events, you can get your id swiped and find a way to sneak out




Watch where you urinate. IPD got a bunch of my friends freshman year for public urination. Also don’t bring a keystone out of a party and carry it openly, you’ll get grabbed real quick.




i'm not sure if i went to any of the mandatory events, no one has said anything to me yet




I'm going to be a junior and i missed the consent play at Schwartz my freshman year, do i just go to this one? where do i find the schedule lol




Is it o week this week?




There's more information on the Cornell University Registrar [site](https://registrar.cornell.edu/service-resources/certification-enrollment-and-degree). You can login using your NetID, then immediately request and save a PDF of your Certificate of Enrollment [here](https://certification.cornell.edu/secourform/Clearing.php)

Edit: hyperlinks




If its for spotify/hulu thing, all you need is a screenshot of your schedule with your name somewhere on it. There is a way to get it in pdf form somewhere on student center i forgot how exactly I did it




I just did the spotify thing yesterday and used the enrollment deposit bill on cashnet




The place you are buying from may list what they accept as proof. For example, Academic Superstore:

http://www.academicsuperstore.com/page/faqs#elig

> Dated Student ID from the current semester or school year
-or-
Class schedule
-or-
Registration Receipt
-or-
Letter of enrollment from school on letterhead
-or-
Online Profile




I found one place that I really liked but she’s pretty pricey and works out of her house. Her business is JUJU Beauty, check her out!! I got volume lashes from her bc she’s the only person I found who does them, but if you’re indifferent about the type of lashes you get you might want to check out La Jolie Beauty Bar. I’ve never gotten my lashes done there but I’ve gotten other stuff done and they’ve been great.




How do college student afford this? With tip, eyelash extensions are 80 dollars every two weeks. Melissa's slightly cheaper but that's because she's not certified.




bars?




Have boobs




I've been to The Loft (cocktail bar) a couple times. Pretty nice, but pricey. Bars in general are just pricey.

Maybe just learn to make mixed drinks at home and have friends over.




Bars are hundreds of times better than frat parties dude




You be an adult and talk to your roommates and compromise.




The better way is to talk to them. The more common way is whoever moves in first gets their pick.




Talk to your roommates and figure out who wants to use which bed, preferably before you all start moving in!




Pick a contest you know you will win, and challenge your roommates to beat you for their pick of the beds.




Talk to your roomates, or ask your RA to help compromise.




Thank you all! I cannot sleep on upper bunk and there’s probably only one lower bed in the room. I looked at some pictures and the third bed is raised to be a loft bed. Sigh




I was in a triple my freshman year, and the way that we sorted it out after talking about it was the person who got the "best" bed got the "worst" dresser and desk combo. I got the bottom bunk (I moved in first & had first pick), so I got the smallest dresser and the desk that was furthest away from the bed. My roommate who got the "worst" bed (top bunk above me) got the "best" dresser, which was the largest and had an extra shelf for storage. Other roommate got the lofted bed with the desk underneath and the dresser that was closest to the bed (just kinda made sense given the layout of the room). "Best" and "worst" are relative terms, as everything was pretty much the same though. It was really minor differences.

Another suggestion is that the heaviest sleeper gets the bottom bunk, because they're least likely to wake up when the person above them climbs into bed.

Hope this helps!




Fight to the death




Yeah it can be warm in the fall. Also the end of the year during finals can  get pretty warm.




Yeah, last year it was warm enough for T-shirt’s up through October




Yeah it lasts about a month then very suddenly drops from 80 to 40 with no inbetween




Personally I like to wear lots of layers, so even in the winter I will wear t-shirts sometimes. A t-shirt plus a light fleece or a sweatshirt would be what I'd wear before jacket(s), and then I'd keep the fleece/sweatshirt on inside a building sometimes if it's cold enough. So short answer yes, bring short sleeve shirts.

 Also depending on what dorm you're in  it can be absurdly hot, so you'll want clothes for that. They didn't let us open the door/windows in our common room all last winter and it was brutal.




As the others have said, you definitely want a fair amount of clothing for warm weather. And a fan, especially if you're living in a building without AC




You can wear shorts year round if you're not a little bitch. Are you a little bitch? /s




Warm for me is anything over 65ish Fahrenheit. But honestly, at most only like 4 of the 9 months of the school year are warm enough for me to wear shorts and t shirts (+ sweater maybe). I personally wore my shorts and shirts two or three times before washing them depending on how dirty they got, so having around 7-10 pairs of clothing was enough for me. If you live in the tri-state area where it's relatively easy to drive to and from home, you can always pack more shorts/shirts when you move in and then bring more winter clothes from home during the fall/thanksgiving breaks.




You get around one month of good weather in the fall and maybe 3 weeks of good weather in the Spring (good as in good enough for shorts).




Layers are definitely good. Even in the winter it can be nice to have lighter clothing so you don’t overheat, sitting in crowded lecture halls.




Yea it’s pretty warm and very humid for the first few weeks. Then come end of September/October it drops to sweater weather




Don't know much about the workload, but Vladimirsky has a reputation for high standards when it comes to students in his classes. Most likely this will be a course where you put in a decent amount of time and engage with lectures (ask questions, follow closely) if you want to do really well.

The course is in modeling but only has basic calc requirements, so I imagine most of the stuff you'll be using will be taught along the way. Still, familiarity with core concepts in differential equations/dynamical systems, and probability (specifically markov chains) will likely be helpful. Those topics have some good introductory videos on youtube, I'm sure Khan Academy and similar pages have covered them and can point you in the right direction.

Classes like this are great because they focus on a goal (modeling real problems) instead of a topic, and draw from a more broad range of math to accomplish that goal.




In my past two 4 semesters I haven't used a flash drive once. For context I'm studying CS in A&S and have taken a fair amount of CS and humanities classes. Cornell Google drive seems to make flash drives obsolete since we have unlimited storage.




I used to but google drive is just so easy




Most laptops will still have USB 2.0, 2.1, or 3.0. The newer laptops like the new Mac will only have USB Type C.

I don't see anyone using USBs on campus anymore, but I personally have a USB external hard drive in case I need to backup or transfer large files.

Overall, I would suggest using **Google Drive.**

Gmail also automatically uploads larger attachments (>25MB) to Google Drive in order to share them in emails.




Thank you all!




I don't, and know most people don't use or even know if they have a USB flash drive. In research sometimes you need one and I'm surprised and end up bringing a much bulkier portable SSD that i do have. No one wants to use flash drives anymore; google drive ftw




I use USB drives. They're reliable, secure, private, work offline, and can be partitioned to also contain a bootable Linux distro. Never know when you'll need it...




depends what department honestly. some majors definitely use it more than others, i've used a flash drive almost all semesters.




There are better cloud services that could be used if files need to be shared.




I use both Google Drive and USB drives just to be safe.




I had an instructor require this for honors chem and it kinda fucked up my week since I didn’t own one and not having it would prevent me from taking grade-determining data, but honestly I feel like it’s fair game to ask for




I used to keep an Arch Linux liveUSB in my pocket until I lost it :(

&#x200B;

I've never needed one for class, but I'd have no issue with that requirement. For those whose laptops don't support it, that's another story. Do you know what the professor requires them for and if there are any alternatives?




Cornell also gives us access to Box, which is a cloud storage site I’ve found to work pretty well.




[this flashdrive](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B06XPX5QDK/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awdb_t1_XtLuDb56KX0JH)  has usb port and the c port




I use mine in school, because frankly I don't have too much space in my computer and its easily to carry around and cheaper than a hard drive. I think a lot of high schools (at least mine did) will have students use flashdrives, so i really doubt its too much of an inconvenience.




I had an instructor require this for honors chem and it kinda fucked up my week since I didn’t own one and not having it would prevent me from taking grade-determining data, but honestly I feel like it’s fair game to ask for




This sounds so cool! This is an idea I've had for some time but I'm clearly not as proactive as you. I'd love to get involved in any way I can! DM me and we can exchange information! I'm a rising junior as well :)




Can guys join too?




omg i was literally just thinking yesterday about how we need a yoga club sign me up




AWESOME! I was just thinking about this too! Does anyone want to organize outdoor surya namaskar open to community?  I would be happy to lead on Sundays if anyone wants to join!




Noyes (west campus) and Teagle (Central campus) have ergs. Haven't been to Helen Newman (North) in a while so someone else will have to answer about that one. They aren't super popular but there aren't a lot of them so you might get unlucky. 

To answer your project team question, my roommate is a physics major and is on the electrical subteam of his team. Might vary from team to team though. 

There are a ton of clubs on campus that don't recruit. Social clubs, cultural clubs, some academic clubs. I would say clubs with recruitment are the minority of clubs, they are just more well known.




1. I know Helen Newman has one.
2. No, you can be a History or Communications major (lol jk, exaggerating), as long as you can demonstrate experience and expertise. Preferably, you'd be majoring, taking classes, or interested/trained in whatever subteam you want to join.
3. I don't have a percentage, but I'd say most of the highly desired organizations have some sort of application process. Project teams and business clubs have recruitment/interview rounds. Club sports have tryouts - pretty standard.




1. Both Helen Newman and Appel has ergs, the only time I have ever seen anybody besides me use them was when I when I was trying to show my friend how to row properly without fucking his back. They should essentially always be open.

2. Yes

3. There are so many fucking clubs, i don’t think anybody knows this. Most finance and project teams have interview processes, I don’t think many clubs besides those have them. Club rowing doesn’t, if you want to do that since you seem to be a rower




Yes and whenever the track teams aren't using them pretty much (or ROTC in the case of Barton). Pretty sure Barton's schedule is online, but it's available most of the time. I think ROTC is there in the morning and Track in the evening?




Find a Berlin Couchsurfing group on Facebook and ask (if you don’t have a registered account).




I got the PDFs in an email, so I would email someone involved




See pm :)




I pmed you




pretty sure there is one in casc




I don't remember seeing dedicated practice rooms. There are a ton of lounges though.




If you’re not majoring in physics I really would not suggest taking 1116. It’s a really tough course and all the other people taking it are going to be HARDCORE physics enthusiasts. Even within all the physics majors I know at Cornell, most are not on the honors track or were but after taking 1116 dropped down to the normal track or, in my case, straight up changed majors.




I think it depends on which French you're taking. Not that I've taken any, but I think you should specify the class




These look fine for a first semester Physics/Math/CS major but you mentioned a health leave. Are you not a freshman?




Just get a job




Check out the cornell cunt club




If you're looking for an organization that will pay you as well as give you good business experience, look into Student Agencies, Inc. It's a corporation of 7 companies with about 2 General Managers and 1 Assistant General Manager for each business, and an executive team that oversees all the businesses.

I was a part of SAI for a year (CTO 2018), and it taught me lot about business operations and enterprise technology while also paying me hourly wage plus bonus.

Edit: it's also student-run! Unaffiliated but partners with Cornell for many things. There are 3-4 adults that help with front-desk, operations, financials, and overseeing the executive team.

Edit 2: wording




If you’re looking for experience with fundraising specifically, project teams raise most of their funds themselves by contacting companies and getting sponsorship (in money or supplies). It’s a great opportunity to work with all the contacts at the companies that have sponsored your team in the past, and learn how to make contacts at new companies.
If you’re looking to make money for you personally, project teams won’t get you that in the short term, but the network from company sponsorships and alumni is no joke and most team members get internships/full time jobs through it




Jobs at the Statler tend to pay pretty well and there’s good progression if you stick with it. Never worked there myself, but have a bunch of friends who do and really enjoy it




When are you visiting? Im not there at the moment but I'm sure someone would be willing to be your cornell affiliated friend if you need one to get in...




I teach climbing at lindseth. Unfortunately there are no other gyms nearer than approximately Syracuse. I don’t think you’ll be able to get around the lesson requirement but bear in mind it’s not necessarily a rope lesson, it should be able to be a private lesson in whatever you want. So that might make it a little better, but it still sucks that you can’t just go in and climb. I would offer to let you in to climb with me if you wanted but I won’t be back for another two weeks. :( I would say your best bets are to either email the special programs contact for the classes and see if there’s another option, or at least just show up and talk the person at the desk into letting you look around. 

Alternatively if you can find/make a friend who’s affiliated they may be able to take you in, I don’t know the exact rules surrounding the affiliation requirements to be honest. It might be that you need to know someone on staff and come in after hours, or it might be that you’re good to climb during normal times if you just know another student.




Yeah, I forget all the requirements, but if you find out that you just need someone affiliated to take you, I can take you. I’m not back until Aug 27th but if you are visiting after that date, lmk.




I'm a gov/econ double major.  I don't find it bad at all.  The government major is extremely flexible (basically any 10 classes, one must be 4000+ and two must be intros), and the econ major isn't so bad (12 classes in total, with a few required classes (4-6) that compose a core).  I have plenty of room for both my majors and a minor or two by taking 5 classes each semester.

The one thing I didn't anticipate was that there are basically no classes that cross-list between gov and econ.  In other words, you won't be able to ever use a class to satisfy both majors like you might have been able to with gov/soc or another pairing like that.




Low effort shit post, try again




I'm all for shitposting but it gotta be funny at least.




Oh for context I'm majoring in Money with a minor in Southeast Asian Studies—gotta start scouting for that future Asian waifu if you catch my drift ;) ;)




I buy things online usually I think




I have some friends in Schuyler and it’s like 15256373 miles away from main campus so unless you have a car, getting to class is not going to be a good time. (There might be a shuttle of some kind tho) That said, the rooms are quite spacious and relatively nice. One of my friends chose it because he’s a big brain boi and doesn’t need/want to attend lecture and likes his personal space.




It’s hell, sorry




I took multi last fall with  Reyer - he was an okay professor who knew his stuff but could be a little dull at times. If you have room in your schedule, I highly recommend switching into one of the lectures taught by Artem Pulmetov - his lectures were more engaging and he had an awesome Russian-Australian accent




I took 1920 fall '17 and 2213 fall '18, and from talking to people who took them in the spring they both seemed to be harder in the fall. I had Sjamaar as a lecturer for 1920, and his lectures were very dry and he was a bit hard to understand at first. He wasn't the worst lecturer, but he has the kind of voice that makes you fall asleep early in the morning.
For doing well in 2213, make sure you understand what is going on in the discussion section coops and lecture problems and you should be fine. When I took it the problem sets were extremely difficult and much harder than anything on the prelims.




Sjamaar is def not the best (had him for 1920 a yr ago)....but not the worst . . . .he's alright...at times, his lectures r a bit hard to understand (i would say def read the tb lessons + take notes ahead of time)

also i heard this past yr 1920 in the spring was easier than in the fall




Eat lunch or dinner together every M, W, F in the dorm dining hall or something like that




Find common interests. Sometimes they’re not obvious or almost non existent. If all else fails bond over the collective suffering that is line slope/Ithaca winters




Not sure how much people at Cornell like playing cards, but I try to bring a pack with me to parties and stuff (mostly conditioned by second semester senior year at high school when we played cards like every day in English class XD) BS, Caps, and ERS are games that are pretty standard to know/easy to learn. Hope this helps :)




eat meals with them. honestly, a big number of the lasting friendships I made at cornell were with a group of people I had dinner with most nights freshman and sophomore year. it’s consistent and low pressure and there’s always something to talk about




>all I did was study, mess around on my computer, and sleep

Try asking them if they mess around on their computers in similar ways. If it's playing games, maybe you play the same games. If it's watching videos, maybe you follow the same content. As others have said, the easiest way is to find something to bond over. 

&#x200B;

>I consider myself to be a boring, unlikable mess of a human

I consider myself to be the same, but I've still been invited to things. As long as you're making a legitimate effort to be friendly and get to know people, there are nice enough people at Cornell who will humor your attempt. All that requires is talking to them enough first.

&#x200B;

>the fact that I'm unable to do something that others can do so simply reinforces that

We all have our strengths and weaknesses. If you're unable to because you're rude to everyone you meet and haven't tried to fix that, that'd be one story. If you're "unable" to because you haven't initiated anything and no one else has either, then just focus on starting that first conversation and let things flow from there. If they don't invite you to hang out or continue the conversation sometime, feel free to ask them yourself. 

&#x200B;

And ya know, if you find you have nothing better to do and feel like hanging out with a fellow boring, unlikable mess of a human, send me a direct message. We can try to find a good time before classes start.




Find something to bond over.




Have you tried eating their ass out




If you want someone to hang out with I'm a DM away!




Last year my roommate would sleep all day except for some of his classes, then play video games all night, and honestly I thought it was super interesting. He wasn’t social, he thought of himself in a similar way to you I think, but I didn’t think of him as a loser at all. He did his thing and I respected that, I totally wanted to become good friends with him.

If you’re in Cornell engineering you are not boring, you’re probably really damn good at something, and that’s interesting.
No one is unlikeable, unless you are just an asshole, which I’m assuming you are not, and even if you are, somehow the worlds biggest pricks still manage to make friends lol. 

I’m sure you’re roommates will be super interested in you, just chat with them even if you think what you are saying is stupid or embarrassing or boring, just be honest. Just being in a triple will put u near a lot of new people, so if you don’t like ur roommates there will be many more opportunities to make friends. 

This will be your year bro, good luck




i agree with everyone saying having set plans for something simple that you already are comfortable doing ie eating, studying, gaming, exercising, anything youre already used to doing, just ask if they want to join! the easiest way to have a convo is to ask about the other person, people love talking about themselves so you could ask about their hometown, interests, favorite foods, tv shows, activities, games, etc. you could even look up ice breaker topics, set questions for getting to know people better and read books on how to learn to be more comfortable in social situations. captivate by vanessa van edwards is a good book and really interesting to learn about how to best communicate and get to know someone. also never eat alone by keith ferrazzi is good! and just remember to keep putting in effort and trying even if its not perfect or things dont go exactly the way you thought right away, friendships really take time! when i try to talk to new people or make new friends and am scared i always tell myself "whats the worst thats going to happen, am i going to die? prob not" (: sounds dumb but it kinda pushes me to just do it and get out of my comfort zone! and even if they dont bond with you right away or things dont work out, there are always many other potential friends out there. good luck you got this!!!




Share your weed with them




If you're in the dorms, the easiest thing to get started is to have your meals together.  It's a low-pressure social environment.  And invite others in your area to go along.

If you're not in the dorms, it's a bit harder since your schedules will be not as easily synced up.  Go shopping together.  Invite them to go shopping with you.  If they invite you to do ANYTHING, just always say yes.  You may not enjoy the activity, but you can try to enjoy the company!




I’ll be your friend




get drunk. booze=lower social anxiety=the basis for most university relationships.




Reach out to them in any way that you feel comfortable. Feel free to DM me too if you want to.




While you might try some of the suggestions that have already been made, have you sought out counseling at all? You may be depressed and the anxiety may be so crippling that you are not able to even do anything that is suggested here. I went to high school with someone who was a lot like you describe yourself. They later added me on facebook in college and seemed like a totally different person. When I asked what had changed, they told me they were not medicated and treating their anxiety and depression with therapy.   


I do not say this to try to stigmatize you or shame you (as mental health issues aren't something to be ashamed of). Therapy is amazing and some folks find that some medications can literally save their life. Just a thought.




I spoke to my freshman year roommate a total of maybe 5 times. :( Awkward man...




Cornell has a well-established clinic on campus with licensed therapists who are all trained to gently help you overcome your social anxiety. It sounds like you need a little more expert advice and help than can be provided on a chat, not that there aren’t great tips here. The problem is if your anxiety mimics social anxiety but actually stems from family of origin issues, then typical remedies won’t help you. In fact, they could make you feel worse, like more of a failure. You are not a failure, but you may need expert coaching. Make an appointment, go in a couple of times, and see if you feel comfortable talking about these issues. You might be surprised how much stress it can relieve.




personally i have trouble making friends too, but the people i've been closest with are the ones who i have a lot in common with. i personally was not close with my freshman year roommate, as i'm pre-med and she's a hotelie, so we didn't have much in common and didn't share the same friends. i made one of my newest friends, who is also one of my closest friends at cornell too, because a lot of our classes overlapped so we often studied/went to class/ate together a lot. since we spend a significant amount of time in academics (as we should since we are students), finding people who are taking the same classes can help you get closer to them, since you guys can study/grab food in between/after classes! good luck!! :)




I've always had a tough time doing this as well, but I have pushed myself a few times. It is tiring though, and if it doesn't go well, you'll at least be able to congratulate yourself for trying. When this doesn't go my way at all, and my brain goes down during the conversation, I take a (prescribed) clonazepam. That helps. Sometimes alcohol helps too (if you're taking anxiety meds, pairing those with alcohol might not be a good idea)--basically, anything that lets you loosen your inhibitions.

After a few stints like these, my cohort got the idea that I'm shit at this and they actually made effort to make me feel included :)
I might've just got lucky, but worth a try.




Me too, man. PM me if you wanna hang out though!




Don’t spoon them without warning




Start chewing lots of gum and then whenever someone you wanna hang with is around offer them gum until they suckyurdik




Forgot the -r to delete the directory idiot




Aw, I like it! I think it’s useful. Just needs a couple tweaks, but what doesn’t?




I’m highkey in the same boat, although I signed up for the class just in case I really needed it. I’m still not sure about dropping it. I don’t think it’s a problem if you don’t take the class in the first semester though. You can just take it whenever or learn to swim without the class before you graduate. There are still a few sections open I think if you change your mind. 

The only thing is that there’s a fee if you take the test at any time other than orientation week (and it doesn’t have to be your class’s orientation week either), but it’s only $100




You'll be fine! Just take the class or swim test sometime before you graduate.




I'm in the same boat, I emailed the person who's contact info was on the swim test info page to ask if taking it in the spring is fine and he said yes. So we're good!




You can take it wherever you want as long as you pass it before you graduate.




You can take it any time during your fours years in Cornell. Taking it during orientation week will cost you nothing but any other time will have $100 fee. I’m in the same boat.




They’ll withhold your diploma in May 2023




Pro tip: wear a Cornell sweatshirt on the plane and in baggage claim look for other people doing the same. People are usually looking for an extra person to split the Uber with, so if you ask if they have an extra seat or want to split the cost chances are they’ll say yes.




I’m not traveling that day, but from experience, wait a few minutes after you get your luggage to call an Uber- surge pricing can go crazy. Once when I tried to call one right after I got my bag, it was $200. Waited ~15 minutes & it dropped down to $95. Can’t guarantee you’ll get that rate, but I hope you do! Safe travels!




What time do you get in? I commute through Syracuse and could pick you up a little before 8:30 am.




I don’t recommend CS 2112 and PHYS 1116 at the same time. Consider dropping CS 2112 and taking 2110 instead. The physics honors course would be more worthwhile imo




Is it doable? Yes. Is it doable in one semester? No.

I took all three of those honors classes my freshman year, but I spread them out across two semesters. Here's my take.

MATH 2230 is hard as hell. It wasn't too bad if you ask the people that took it last year, because Hubbard was on sabbatical. He's back this year, and he's taking the reigns of 2230 again. This class was by far the hardest of the three, but also the one that covers the most content that its corresponding standard variant won't cover.

CS 2112 is to this day my favorite class at Cornell, though that's probably because between the three subjects, I like CS the most. Your mileage may vary. This class expects you to be able to develop real-world scale software during the semester, which inevitably requires a time investment. Also Kozen taught this the last three years, but Myers is coming back for fall 2019, so expect another difficulty bump here, as Kozen had been watering down the difficulty during his tenure.

PHYS 1116 is another very fun class. I personally found it more time consuming than 2112, but that's because my high school didn't offer AP Physics C, but I did have a lot of prior programming experience. Objectively, it's probably the least difficult of the three. That doesn't mean it's easy. Still expect long problem sets that'll take days to puzzle through.

Ultimately, I did take all three and do well in all three. Contrary to maybe some of the opinions here, I don't want to discourage you from going for these classes if you're genuinely passionate about it. Speaking from experience, each and every one of these honors classes offers a drastically different experience compared to their standard variants that, if you really love the subject, really can be irreplaceable.

That said, there's no way in hell you can do all 3 in one semester. If you're really dead-set on doing all three, I'd recommend doing what I did. 1116 is the only class of the three also offered in the spring, so imo the way to go is to push back 1116, so take 2230 + 2112 fall and 2240 + 1116 spring.

That's my two cents. Hope that helps.




I disagree. If you’re a freshman already at that level, go for it. You’re only taking 4 classes and the fws isn’t too hard so you should be fine. Since you’re starting at 2230 I assume you’re gonna do well in that class. It takes a moderate amount of work and isn’t as bad as most say it is. The tests are kinda nasty sometimes but the content is manageable. Start with your current classes but be prepared to switch from say 1116 to 1112 or 2110 to 2112. This schedule is more than manageable as long as you don’t wait til the last minute to study for your exams.




I strongly suspect the respondents are not too familiar with math 2230, as that's probably the hardest course on your list by far (it's definitely significantly harder than CA 2112, not so sure about the physics class).

As for my opinion, I'd suggest going for it. You can always drop MATH 2230 (which most people do), and the class is designed in a way such that there's an easy transition into the easy lin alg class.

I don't know how confident you are in your abilities, but I (and several people I know), took course loads like that our first semesters, and did fine.

On the other hand, I don't know all the people who tried to take those course loads and failed.




2230 gang




I agree with the other guy. Take honors physics, and switch to 2110 instead of 2112.

You'll want to get used to the rigor of Cornell classes your first semester, as well as leave time to meet people, join clubs/extracurriculars, and explore the campus!




Red tuxedo with suspenders, top hat, spats - and tails, of course, if after 6pm.

Most classes finish well before 6, but exams are often at 7:30, and you wouldn't want to make a bad impression at an exam.

The stuckups at the Johnson School will insist on pocket squares, but that's over the top.




Just make sure you wear clothes. Most of the time that’s as far as the requirement gets. I see most PhDs in like jeans and a shirt or in summer with shorts or whatever. Like if you are still nervous no harm in slightly overdressing for the first day (over better than under). You’ll see further in how people like to dress or what your lab is like. But yeah have only ever seen one person where anything other than tracksuit/jeans and shirt combo that I knew was a graduate.

Just wear something that doesn’t make the police stop and ticket you for indecency.




Full Harry Potter robe every day.  (But nothing underneath.)




Read up on formal day versus evening dress. There would be nothing worse than showing up for a late class in a morning coat! The professor may not even allow you to enter, and that's not even considering how it would affect your social standing.

Also, be sure you have your calling cards prepared and that you have seasonally appropriate hats for those lucky few classes that permit more informal suits. I once saw someone kicked out of a class for having the gumption to wear a Panama hat in late November when even a homburg would have been more acceptable!




I prefer ranch or red wine vinaigrette




I'm an undergraduate but I work under some gradutate students in engineering, and I never see them wear anything *other* than blue jeans.




Deodorant and toothpaste.




Everyone in my department just dresses super casually. Some of us go a little more polished up while teaching, but honestly some people don't even bother with that and it's fine.




Salmon Gucci slides.




Go to the commons and buy 7 “Ithaca is Gorges” t-shirts in a different color for every day of the week




Don’t worry about being in one of the “top” houses. You still mix with many of the sororities, and have events with other houses. If you really want to be in it then look for places you actually think you can get along with the kids in the house. Although truth be told seems like Cornell is slowly trying to phase out Greek life by the looks of how they’re treating all allegations in the past few years.




You have all semester to figure it out - you can't technically rush until the spring.

If you're shotgunning to be in a 'top' house then make sure you establish relationships with those houses in the fall during o-week, etc. - a lot of them pick a sizable amount of their incoming class from kids they met during the fall.

Otherwise just relax. You'll either meet houses you like being around in the fall or you'll just meet them during rush week.

edit: if you're a girl you literally can't do anything during the fall - you can be 'dirty rushed' but it's not all that common for srats




Rush does not happen til the beginning of the spring semester so not much to think about for the fall - if you are interested in seeing what greek life is like I would say just go to open parties and such fall semester and meet folks that are involved.




Honestly I’ve found this subreddit isn’t super friendly toward Greek life so you might not get super great advice. Greek life certainly has its issues, there are some fraternities and sororities that embody every racist and sexist stereotype there is. But there are also plenty that don’t conform to that stereotype. At the end of the day, you don’t lose anything by coming to rush week. Just come to see if you like it, be yourself, and if you find it’s not for you, don’t join anywhere.




You will rush in the Spring, so you have time. Look into each sorority and see what you like. It's more imporant that you find a place where you feel most comfortable.

Also this subreddit is kinda Anti-greek life, but it's important to understand that Greek life is what you make of it.




I don't think frats should be around at all anymore and are problematic in an innumerable number of ways but if you're set on joining one just be very picky during rush. Learn as much as you can about the houses you're interested in and be very perceptive about the way the house is run and the brothers act, the last thing you want is to end up at a Llenroc house situation, do an elephant walk or some other disgusting hazing bullshit and be emotionally scarred for life.




Don’t




Why do people want to join those things? I'll never understand it.




Messaged!




Are PMs for pets only? I've been hungry for a good MEAL if you know what I mean...




Who's your worm guy?




I have a bearded dragon that would love them!




What specifically are you asking about?




I had a pair of decent Sorel boots (can't find specifics on what pair I had) that were lined and they were pretty dang warm if a little chunky and heavy for walking during the winter. On top of that it was decently waterproof so I wasn't too worried about stomping around in snow drifts (which does happen when sidewalks aren't shoveled out after a big storm). 

I would definitely also invest in thicker winter socks so your feet+legs aren't too cold either.




For when there’s snow like real, your feet would be cold snow, I swear by a pair of Columbia’s. For its cold outside but the sidewalks are clear I usually wear timberlands. Anything else I wear whatever shoes I want




Ok so a lot of girls wear bean boots (including myself), but tbh I don't know if I'd recommend them.  They have no traction, and I slip everywhere all winter.  Though, to be fair maybe that's an Ithaca problem and not specific to the boots. Besides the slidey-ness, I have no complaints.  Whatever boots you get, make sure they're insulated and waterproof.




You can’t go wrong with Uggs. I lived in Uggs during college and still live in them now. If you have never had a pair the fur Lining will keep your feet comfier than they have ever been. If you do get Uggs a few pieces of advice I can offer is 

1. For sizing when you first put them on they should feel very snug but not feel uncomfortable at first and they will stretch and the fur inside will mold to your foot after a week giving you a perfect fit. 

2. If you want to get the most out of your Uggs they are meant to be worn barefoot. This might seem weird and you would think that they will smell quickly but because of the sheepskin they will get your feet from getting to hot or to cold from -30 to 80 so your feet won’t sweat in them so no smell. If they do sweat a little sheepskin is very breathable and it is antimicrobial. If you wear socks your feet will be colder and you won’t be able to feel the soft fur. Socks will also make them not fit as nice and they will ware out faster. I have been wearing Uggs for over ten years and have never worn socks with them and mine have 
never smelled, same with my friends and sister. 

3. I have heard people say they don’t work good as winter boots because they slip easy. I can tell you that this in not true you will only slip in them if you are on full ice which is the same as any shoe. Campus is always kept salted and free of ice so they are perfect. Also people say they get wet in the snow. I can tell you this is not true all my years of wearing them my feet have never got wet in them even walking in a foot of snow. The new ones are even better they come treated to repel water. Depending on the color you get they might look wet on the outside but your feet will be warm and dry in them and the surface will dry quickly and look brand new after.

Ugg boots are a great piece of foot ware. The reasons people don’t like them is either looks. Which if you are going to class who care what you look like it’s much better to be comfy so you can focus better. or they wear socks with them and are not comfy. The first time you put them on without socks your brain will tell you this is not normal. Then you slide them on and feel your foot surrounded by the soft fur and it will feel amazing then you go to leave in them and you think this can’t be ok my feet will get blisters and smell. But as you are walking to class or the store     At first all you are thinking about it how nice your feet feel then the thought fades and you are out and about all day not thinking about it and when you get home you go to take the boots off and you remember that you do have socks on in them and you remember how comfy your feet were all day. You feel your feet and they are not wet from sweat and you smell inside the boot and it smells brand new. The next day is the same but after a week you don’t even think about it. 

Sorry for how long this is but all I can say is get Uggs you can’t go wrong. Your feet will be in heaven.




Boots fit super differently depending on the manufacturer and style, so trying them on beforehand is a good idea. I personally recommend a taller pair that laces up and extends past your ankles. Fur lining is both comfy and warm, so that's a plus too. I think your best bet would be to go to a store like the Sierra Trading post and try some on to see what is most comfy.  Something like [this](https://www.sierra.com/santana-canada-majesta-winter-boots-waterproof-insulated-leather-for-women~p~422gm/?filterString=s~snow-boots%2F) is close to what I have. Of the 4 brands you listed, the only ones I wouldn't recommend would be uggs as they're too flimsy and not waterproof enough.




Bean boots




Bean boots or Timberlands are usually a safe choice.




You should consider a pair of Blundstones! 
I swear by them, great for fall / winter, rain / blizzards. Plus they’re super stylish and you won’t feel like you’re walking around with cinderblocks on your feet.




Highly recommend Bogs (get the knee highs). Grew up in a cold snowy winter climate and I’ve had a pair since 8th grade. Kept my feet warm and toasty all day long this past year on campus.




i also need boot advice but ive heard doc martens and timberlands, does anyone know about those 2 options? i thought docs didnt do well in snow..?




Burks




Chippewa




Got a good pair of Columbia boots my freshman year, they lasted me a good 6 years til I finally killed em.




Literally everyone wears LL Bean boots. End of story




I have bean boots, and I love them. Mine have goretex lining and tumbled leather, so they're super warm and comfy. Also, I've had great experiences getting them fixed if the treads wear or anything else goes wrong.




I have lace up, knee-high Ugg boots. They are leather, sheep wool lined and have fantastic traction. They have lasted me three years and many snow-frollicing days. They are, obviously, very chunky/heavy, but definitely worth it as I stay nice and toasty all winter long.
Whatever you choose, make sure they are thick, and waterproof. Even if they are expensive, it is a great investment.




Bruh I got boots at Costco and they were just fine and cost $25. Lasted me the whole winter and weren't name brand or anything




I would also like to know!




I'd definitely drop (at least) one. I have friends who took Algo and 3410 concurrently as the two difficult classes with fairly light classes otherwise, and it was still quite rough for them. The two alone will keep you very busy, not even considering the other classes. 

As someone who has taken both 2930 and 3300 (in the same semester, too), neither are what I would consider "light". They're both a fair bit of rote work, and are fairly theoretical, so I wouldn't underestimate their impact.




Overall it's doable if you don't have many responsibilities outside of classwork. If that's not the case, I would consider dropping any one of those classes aside from Networks because that would barely change your overall workload (it's the only one of your list considered easy).




Doable. 2850/2930 are not real classes, 3300 is not awful but not super easy either from what I've heard. I don't think you're gonna have a great time but it's not gonna be the worst, you might want to think about why you're taking 3300 though.




My housing and dining were on my July bill. Maybe give them a call and see what's up.




I’ve been charged for dining. I’m an RA so I don’t see housing charges but if they haven’t charged you as of the bill dated in August I say give dining a call on Monday to make sure everything is set up properly




Everything was on my July bill, not sure what's up with yours




I'm an incoming grad student with a housing contract signed, have also yet to see any housing expenses on the bill.




SWE internship. Realized I absolutely fucking hate tech.




Spent time with my family. Don’t sweat it.




Ur fine




i took classes on campus




If you’re worried you didn’t get an internship after freshman year then you really have your priorities messed up.




lol does it really matter to compare?




I did research during my first summer. (and again during the second). --- realized i absolutely enjoy research, but haven't experienced industry at all.  (what even are internships \*laughs and cries at the same time\*)




Two friends work at Google and one at Bloomberg, none of them had internships their first summer, in fact two of them didn't have for second summer either. Just do your best.




Did my first internship at a bb (ib)




Guatemala internship and work full time afterwards




I'm a rising junior but I did absolutely nothing in the summer after my freshman year. However, I did research after my sophomore year.




Workload is standard: 4-6 book problems weekly. The course is essentially taught from the book, or roughly taught depending on who you have. Course itself isn’t particularly difficult. If you keep up with the homework you’ll do fine, the tests are very straightforward, but I do remember the final having an interesting problem or two. Homework’s are also a mix of proof and computations, but bias towards computational proofs.

How I feel about the course: Pretty bad course. I would honestly take a different probability course such as 3130 from the Econ department (very good professor). I took both 4710 and CS 4850 and while both of them fulfill high level probability requirements, neither of them were well taught or lasting.




1) yes suite bathroom is cleaned by staff twice a week - once a quick clean the other a deep clean.

2) yes you need your own toiletries, there is shelf space if you want to keep them there, or you can choose to keep it in your room (depends on you)

3) yes you get 2 Keys, one for main door one for your door.




I believe it’s cleaned by staff.




I had an hr5 suite last year and we only had one key for our rooms (we weren’t allowed to close the door to the suite anyway)




Staff. You might have paper towels but you might not. You also might have cubbies but you also might not. Which building is it?




[removed]




Hand soap and paper towels (if there is a dispenser, there might be just a hand dryer) will be provided. you’ll have to bring all your personal toiletries (including soap for shower, etc) though.




Your suite could smell like monkey ass...




It's gonna be really hard to get any less than that. If you rent a UHaul yourself and look for labor you can go lower.




Pm me and I can do it much cheaper for u since i have a truck and can use a side job




If the stats suggest cornell is pretty big brain why do we still shit in the shower




Damn Dyson went from 90 to 160 students even though the overall class size went down.




So close to a single digit acceptance rate. The other ivies are gonna keep bullying us :(




wish it’d show acceptance rate per college




>55.0% are women; 45.0% are men

clOsE thE GeNDer GaP




F




Honestly, though, student center has my SSN, i'm glad it has two-step




Ah shit here we go again




Two step login is the bandaid to our security woes, glad to see universities are embracing it. Once biometrics are mainstream and more reliable, perhaps we can ditch passwords altogether. 

Someday.




Two step is annoying but lowkey necessary so that when like 8000 students click on the stupid phishing emails they can’t ruin ur whole life




Ah fuck, now I have to set up Duo.




Yay that’s so exciting! 2 step login is the shizz




As a freshman you're probably living on north anyway (language house is on west), but with the freshman meal plan, you can eat on West (any dining hall on campus basically). What you'd probably be most interested in are the 2 meals a week and conversation hour (the 3rd meal is Cook house dinner, which is only open to Cook residents during 6-7pm on Weds), so you can just ask the native speaker when and where the meals and conversation hour is and join in.

edit: there might be some official thing about being an "out of house associate", but honestly, from my experience, nothing is stopping you from just casually going to the 2 meals and conversation hour (I had a freshman friend who did, and then lived in the language house the year after)




If I remember correctly, yes




Dec 22nd - January 21st




It's like a month or a little over a month long. We're definitely up there in terms of one of the longer winter breaks.

[If you go here], you'll see the last day of classes is December 10th, then finals extend beyond that - and instruction for the spring semester resumes on Jan 21st. 

Jan 2nd is like the start for the super short winter session.




It’s almost a month. From December 20th (depending on your final exam schedule) to the 21st

I think you were confusing the spring semester start with the start of the winter session, which isn’t a regular semester




It's from your last finals to whatever date the calendar shows as first day of classes for Spring semester.




[Cornell Academic Calendar](https://cornell.edu/academics/calendar/?year=2019-20 "2019-2020")




Keeton > WS.   

No but seriously apply.




Great way to get extra meals and good pay on campus. Had a great first year working at North Star, and I'm continuing to work with them this year. Even if you wait a while to get adjusted to school again, or college in general if you're new, they'll always be looking to hire more people.




Are the dining jobs open to work-study students only? Or everyone?




Graduated over 20yrs ago, and I can say after all of this time that my job at Balch dining was probably the best job I've ever had.  Hours were incredibly flexible, picking up shifts was easy, no stress, expectations were low, we listened to WVBR at high volume until all the dishes were done and we went home tired and fed.  You won't ever have life that easy ever again.




F




I invite anyone to do hyperquantum general relativistic string theoretic experimental photonics using only lab software built by Workday, without a drop of coffee




I have one on discord and Snapchat for class of 2023 dm if ur that year




I don't know of any, but I'm a TO and have been trying to meet people so feel free to PM me :)




Just so you know, they just redid the class last semester. So your experience will differ from most people’s. 

From what I understand there’s slightly less fly counting though, so that’s good. For me the things that made the class bad were trying to tell the relative size of the fly’s back bristles under a microscope and the disgusting smell of the fly’s food, combined with the fact that I accidentally introduced a mutant fruit fly invasion to my dorm room when a couple eggs stowed away on my backpack.

But if you’re good at genetics, you shouldn’t have an issue with the actual genetics part of genetics lab. It’s mostly just crosses and the type of logic you would use to solve problems in classes like genetics and orgo.

So the advice, like advice for orgo and normal genetics, is do practice problems so you’re understanding the material and not just memorizing.




ur moms pretty famous ‘round these parts




International dignitary’s kids are fairly common otherwise no-one too famous outside of students from infamously rich families.




Andy Bernard




https://cornellsun.com/2019/04/29/olympian-national-champion-and-soon-a-pre-med-student-figure-skater-karen-chen-looks-forward-to-life-at-cornell/




Don't remember exactly what is required, but you'll need your passport, I20, and you may need to have a minimum balance in the account to avoid monthly fees. 

If you just need a bank account for use around Ithaca, CFCU and Tompkins Trust would suffice and they're both at the Cornell Store. If you're intending to travel within the US, it might be preferable to open an account with Bank of America, since it's a nationwide bank, and the only one that has several ATMs in/around campus. However, they don't have a local branch - I opened mine in NYC just before I travelled to Ithaca.




I didn’t know that! Thanks for the tip




For those who have been messaging me: download as an iCal then follow this  [Link](https://help.sportlyzer.com/hc/en-us/articles/207593579-Add-iCal-to-Google-Calendar?mobile_site=true)  and scroll to import iCal




Big if true




Is this on the student center page?




You could list it as a sublet at [https://listings.offcampusliving.cornell.edu/](https://listings.offcampusliving.cornell.edu/)




Craigslist works really well too. Be patient and keep posting the listing. Maybe you can find someone to take over your lease for a few months—it’d be better than nothing!




Wear what YOU like to wear, not what others like to wear




am girl. some girls definitely put in a lot of effort, some don’t put in any. a lot more girls somewhere in between that range. nothing wrong with any of them!

basically, unless it’s required to dress up for a certain class, wear whatever you want. if you wear sweatpants there’s probably way more girls wishing they were as comfortable as you than girls actively judging you. you really can’t go wrong (barring maybe showing up in an evening gown or a bikini)




It's not a big pajamas kind of school, but pretty much anything goes. Most girls wear something in the realm of leggings/jeans/skirt and boots/sneakers/flats with whatever kind of top, ranging from cute/dressy to just a t shirt/tank/sweater/sweatshirts. Then you'll see the more fashionable dresses, rompers, skirts with crop tops, etc. There's a really wide range of fashion here. Probably if you were fine wearing it to high school, you'll be fine wearing it here. Added tip, check out the cornell facebook page, they show a lot of shots of people walking around campus looking normal, you can pick up the vibe pretty easily from that.




It’s a big school.  Girls appear in class all the way from “perfectly put together” to “just rolled out of bed”




I do NOT




Generally if you look like a slob/slut no one cares but it’s a good idea to look presentable on a day to day basis. You never know who you’re going to be interacting with. I dress like as if I’m going about a workday at some non customer-facing job.




I’m a guy, so take with a grain of salt... my advice is to start the semester off looking presentable and wearing clothes you’d wear out to meet friends for lunch. As the semester goes on, you can play it by ear and see what you’re comfortable with! But certainly never bad to get an initial reputation as someone who dresses well and looks good :)




idk if this is accurate but it was my initial impression of Cornell that people there are generally more nicely dressed than the students I’ve seen at state schools where I’m from. When i visited my friends at their schools I noticed many people wearing sweatpants and pajamas, which I don’t see much at Cornell (especially not pajamas) but there are of course exceptions. Theres a few international kids who walk around like they just got off a runway which is always interesting to see, but for the most part people are pretty casual. Basically just don’t wear pajamas IMO and you’ll be fine.




Wear whatever the hell you want, unless you’re in one of those business/hotel classes where you’re told to dress up then its whatever. People aren’t going to be looking that hard either way




When the weather is nice, I like put on a dress or wear a colorful top with some shorts or a skirt. Nothing fancy. As long as the colors match, I’m happy. Ithaca is too cold for this kinda clothes most of the year tho. In fall and winter, I mostly just try to stay warm with skinny jeans or mom jeans paired with a comfy sweater or sweatshirt. Personally not a big leggings person, but it’s definitely socially acceptable to wear leggings, too. Honestly, nobody really cares. But as a girl, I understand the desire to look presentable just in case you meet someone you wanna impress/not embarrass yourself in from lol.




There's a lot of girls here. Some will care. Some won't.




Only people that properly dress up are the Hotelies and some ILR/AEM people, otherwise you can wear whatever you want, most wear casual stuff.




There’s a huge variety in how people dress and what you wear will probably depend on if it’s just a casual day or you’ve got some sort of meeting/presentation. Just dress how you feel comfortable, there’s no rules telling you how to dress.




I generally like to look nice for class. I have this weird thing where I want to look good and do extremely well in my classes. (Probably bc I grew up in a family where I was told that you can either be smart and look average or pretty and dumb.)

However, if I wanna wear a sweatsuit especially during exams, I will at least style my hair somewhat nicely and put on a bit of makeup to trick myself into not feeling like a complete slob. 😂 I attempt to put in some effort during exams so I feel better about my personal and mental health.

Tbh I don't even own a pair of leggings. I think I counted over 20 pairs of pants and jeans at the end of last semester. 🤷‍♀️ so that kind of forces me to try a bit harder than leggings and a t shirt 🤣

But just be you! I'm a bit crazy but that works for me. You really shouldn't care about what people think about you. And if people judge you for what you wear, then they are trash and you shouldn't waste your brain power on them (because let's be honest there is so much more at cornell that you should be using your brain energy on).

Just to prepare you tho, August heat/humidity has been a motherfucker the past couple of years. Dress and pack lightly. And mentally prepare yourself. Coming from CA I still wasn't prepared for the humidity and lots of walking my first year. Ithaca weather can be a bitch.

🤗😎💁‍♀️✌❤




>How to start a coop

I believe the simplest way is to buy some chickens




I thought you misspelled coup, I was hyped for some revolution




Get in contact w Cayuga Lodge, they're an independent co-op for students that could help you out maybe




Occupy willard straight or something




All of the water in all of the gorges in Ithaca couldn’t quench the amount of thirst in that subreddit.




I think there might be a *slightly* skewed gender ratio on there.




There are actually 0 posts of girls looking for a guy lmao




Am L^p function, looking to be integrated against an element of my dual space




Is it just for dating or is it to meet potential friends too?




When I click on it, it has an NSFW warning and I don’t know how to bypass it.




there is no outright benefit of the m.eng. besides having two extra semesters to take advanced coursework which may help you get a job in that specific subfield (i.e. you take a bunch of advanced ML classes and do a ML project, you might have a leg up in getting an ML job). it can also be useful if you did an undergrad in something else (like MechE) and want to pivot into tech

further, from my understanding (and reading anecdotes on /r/cscareerquestions) most tech companies don't give any additional compensation for advanced degrees if you are applying for standard new grad / entry level roles (only if you are applying for roles the require masters or higher). in other words you won't get promoted to software engineer II or get a salary bump just because of that mEng

__________________

if cost is not a concern you should do it, however you should consider the very real impact that the opportunity cost + standard cost of the degree may have




For a lot of people, the opportunity cost of the CS  MEng isn’t worth it. If you can’t find a job or need a Masters level degree for visa reasons, then it sorta makes sense. However, I don’t think many companies give two shits about your grad-level courses, and its a terminal degree, which means its useless if you’re considering grad school. Still has its place, but is only worth it in a narrow set of circumstances




Get a job and buy a lambo




I had planned to become a functioning adult who doesn’t depend on his parents for money... I feel like I need another four years before that’s gonna happen.




I went to grad school, changed my mind after two years, and then sold out to corporate after realizing the error of my previously naive ways




Make money I'm getting fucked in the ass with these payments




Took out even more student loans! Yayy




Sell my soul




Vet school aka more loans




Focus on music and art. Learn calligraphy. Read literature. Travel to Europe. Sleep.




Get a masters or something and not sell out




!RemindMe




Generally internally transferring is pretty easy if you have like semi-decent grades but Dyson tends to be a little trickier because of their size but the general rule still applies that if you have good grades and some business courses you should be fine.




AEM? Pretty difficult.




ive heard dyson is REALLY hard




Get a sublet in college town. There will probably be students who will be abroad for just the fall and could use someone to help cover their cost of rent. They’d probably prefer someone paying for the whole semester, but if they’re desperate that’s good for you.




Agreed on the college town idea if you are looking for a more lively experience




Freshmen all live on North Campus so if you want to be geographically near them, look for some off-campus housing next to north. People are generally friendly and unless you have aspirations to get into exclusive social circles it won't be too hard to find people to do things with.




Check the facebook cornell housing page, seems to be lots of sublets in shared apartments there.




>Mod Bowling night - bowling for the r/Cornell moderators. None of you are invited. 

:(




Whyd you even put mod bowling night in then? Bet you feel soo cool and powerful




>If you would like to contribute to the classBot, you can't, but we will be accepting detailed suggestions in the replies.

throw it up on github




I'm aware this is a meme, but there is already a [Watch Club at Cornell](https://facebook.com/watches.cornell/ "Horological Investment Club at Cornell")




Do my AirPods count?




Wait are these clubs a joke because I seriously wanted to join the cock club




Does my apple watch count?




Lame




I read that as glock lmaooo




yes




No




Will I get an unlimited supply of Hagoromo if I join?




https://imgur.com/BXCkhSA

Being smart is not a rule on this subreddit, it is in fact more of an exception. The post stays.




This’ll be a lovely addition to my resume.




The fact that you need to specify this is not an orgy makes me think it’s an orgy.




At first I thought you wanted to raise chickens, then I assumed you wanted to cook traditional soups, and at the end I concluded that your idea is basically what Michael Angello did with his sculptures. Good luck!




I thought frats already had this one covered, no?




median length for acceptance? ://




Will you read the CBT entry to me from Wikipedia?




If I join I would like to be known by all my clubmates as Hugh Mungus




smh university is trying to co-opt critical phallicology




interviewer: and it says here president of... cock club? 
me: look it’s not what it seems it’s more of an ED-Anonymous support group
interviewer: 
me: 
interviewer: well, on behalf of viagra i’d like to offer you to job




I might have to go back to Ithaca just to be part of this club.




NOT universal. It's NOT. Can't stress this strongly enough.

That having been said, welcome to the club of clubs, we cherish your unapologetic expansion of the Overton Window.




I’ve been informed I might get an infinite supply of hagoromo for joining this. Is that true?
https://reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/cncfg0/_/ew9y26b/?context=1




Facilities doesn't like people posting pics and stuff of the inside of the buildings. Apparently it's a safety hazard or something. Idk but they're super anal about it.




I lived in a double in Casc this past year, and not all of the rooms have the same layout. They're pretty small but large enough to fit 2 beds, 2 desks, 2 closet/dressers, and 2 dressers with drawers below the beds.




I’m waiting for the Cornell Coc Club, the Clash of Clans fanatics




I’m waiting for the Cornell Loch club, I wanna see Nessie




Thats placing a lot of pressure on people to join the club. I’m in.




This club should also be about pulling a Justin Moore and wearing bright yellow crocs everywhere




I’ve been sent here on promise of unlimited hagoromo. Could I find this in your club?

https://reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/cn8d03/_/ewa5e9s/?context=1




Python with Walter, scuba diving, banks(if you like finance)




Rock climbing especially, but really any of the Cornell Outdoor Ed classes!




Intro to Environmental Psychology and Adult Psychopathology were both really good!




History of WWII, but I think the professor retired.

Besides that, really liked Disability Law




Human Bonding in the HD department




AIIS 2100: Indigenous Ingenuities, with Professor Jolene Rickard

Completely transformed the way I think about Indigenous peoples. Go in with an open mind, and a willingness to just listen. You will learn SO much.




Syntax & Semantics was really good




I’ve only been here for a year, but my favorites so far are PE 1150 (intro to ballroom dance) and CS 3110. I’ve also heard from many others that intro Japanese is worth it if you have the time.




Minds and Machines was fantastic.




Highly recommend prof eric tagliacozzo from the history department!




Strangely really enjoyed Math 3110 (intro to analysis) last semester. Went in as an engineer with no background in proofs. Did well and learned a lot. Also have heard good things about a couple 1000 or 2000 level Astro classes.




Did you say branch cut? Have I got the mathematical physics class for you.   
More seriously, ENGL 4715, CS 2850/1110, and the 3 grad astro classes offered next semester are all interesting options imo. Also always wanted to take intro to mandarin but never had time.




The Twenty-First Century with Joan Lubin. Mind-blowing English class.




Intro to Visual Studies, Society and Natural Resources, CS 2110, Ancient Ships and Seafaring, and most of all, Introduction to Wines and Vines.




Oceanography with Bruce. Easy A, great prof, extremely relevant material, every undergrad should take this class. Save the planet y'all.




Idk if you’ve had your questions answered yet, but I took a LOA without consulting anyone (since it was during the summer and it was p last minute as well) for my own reasons. I think it took about a week or two for them to email back saying they approved my LOA request. Of course you could always call your respective college’s registrar and ask, they’re always willing to help. 

One thing is that if you’ve already signed the housing contract you’ll have to pay the cancellation fee, which was p expensive IIRC. As for the tuition fee. I request a LOA in July and got a reply in August and they didn’t bill me for that. Lmk if you have any more q’s.




i was studying under xak bjerken (piano) last semester. my audition was two pieces (10 mins total) and a sight reading excerpt that they chose. i think you have to be relatively competent to take individual lessons from the department -- beginner and intermediate players can take lessons from the cornell piano society.




Yes!! I joined the piano studio last semester.

It was wonderful. You will audition to join a group under the current PhD student who is teaching that semester (last was Theodora Serbanescu-Martin, she was excellent you can look her up). The audition is 2 songs, they won’t make you play a lot they just wanna see your competence in 2 different styles.

Keep in mind however (because I didn’t exactly realize this), this is not really ‘lessons’ like you’d get after school on Tuesdays in high school each week. It’s not designed to teach beginners, but more for already skilled pianists with experience. 

If you get in, this comes with weekly lessons with the teacher, biweekly piano classes (they’re long lectures with some playing, 2 hours usually) and an end of semester concert.

Like I said the studio is not for beginners which they make clear on their website. I was one of 10 students, all of which were varying levels. I have been playing classical piano for 13 years and I would say I was around ranked around 6-7 (10 being the best person there). I was also among the youngest as a freshman, with a lot of juniors and when a grad student. 

For example of the level, I was playing Chopin Ballade 1, Clara Schumann romances op. 11. Other students were playing Liszt’s Un Sospiro, Liszt-Schumann’s Widmung, Chopin’s Ballade 2. Right now I’m learning some Mephisto Waltz no. 1 and 3, and some Fledermaus Grunfeld, both are destroying me lol. 

The instruction is at a very high level. Even with my experience, I definitely felt a little small lol. But that may have just been Theodora’s style. She’s very bold and witty, and a bit scary, and VERY skillful, I’m sure she will become a world class pianist one day. So that made her a bit scary to learn from. This is a good thing btw, it means you’re really learning from a real virtuoso. keep in mind tho she’s no longer teaching, a new PhD comes each semester

I’d say 4-5 years of classical piano is around the lower limit for what’s necessary. Do it if you really want to enhance yourself as a musician, which is great if you do. 

Please don’t let any of this scare you, and remember if you don’t feel inspired and amazed, and a bit shitty at the end of a lesson that means it’s not intense enough. The best way to know if you’re good enough is to audition. If you need any other info PM me




TCAT. People love to complain about bus systems, but honestly TCAT is pretty great.




My roommate.




zimride




TCAT whenever possible since it's cheap and generally reliable. Uber when you cant TCAT. Real taxi services for odd hours to the airport ( some folks have had bad experiences w/taxis but I haven't). Buses to Syracuse, Rochester, NYC. Zimride during breaks to most cities that a lot of students come from. If you've got money the C2C bus is probably the best way to go to NYC other than zimride/finding a carpool. Ithaca airport is also expanding service so if you really want to get away that's a decent option.




Take PE1340.

More seriously, read up on different time management strategies and try them out. What works for one person may not work for another. Keep watch and don't repeat patterns expecting something different to happen next time ("I swear this time studying the night before will work").

For me, the most effective things were setting up a regular time every day to spend time on assignments and then a separate time to spend reviewing notes and/or studying for tests. Don't combine them. If you don't have an assignment to work on, spend that block relaxing or doing something to de-stress. If you study your notes every day, then you will be prepped to ask questions if you don't understand something, do work more quickly, and not rush to study at the last minute (where you'll retain nothing).




I noticed my biggest pitfall would be going back home after classes. I tend to start and finish classes late, but essentially, if you go back to where you live, you're just going to be chilling and not getting work done. I recommend going straight to the library after class and grinding it out for however long until dinner. Then after dinner, you can usually take some time to wind down/relax for the day.

So imagine you finish class at 2:15 and grind until 7:15, finish up dinner by 8:00, you have quite a few hours to chill at night and set aside a good amount of time to work. 

If you need to work more, then you need to work more and not much you can do about it, but this is a good starting point.




Notebook and pen. Keeping a daily list of shit I have to do keeps my anxiety in check (since I'm not constantly repeating the list in my head) and organically develops time management skills since I'm looking at your list and allocating sections of time to each task not just today but into the future as well.




Have clear priorities. People who claim they don't have time are simply wasting it all.




Honestly find things that you are passionate about and friends that you care about. Personally when I really want to do things I love or hang out with people, I will be more motivated to get other stuffs done and out of the way. Plus that’s how you stay not depressed lol.

I never really used a calendar or written down a to-do list tbh, but those are generally helpful things to do for sure.




>Self care

lmao




Hey there! I was in your exact situation, same classes and all. What i did was start off with 9 hours a week (went into lab 3 days a week, 3 hour time slots). However, profs know that we’re still students, and academics come first. I’d recommend trying out hours you think are reasonable for you, and then, as the semester goes on, you’ll know your schedule much better, and can adjust, either increasing or decreasing your Lab hours, of course telling your prof. Hope this helps!




The most important factor to consider is how many large chunks of free time you have in your schedule. Anything less than 3-3.5 hours in one slot is typically not very productive (obviously depending on what type of research you are conducting). I have found that I design my schedule to leave 3 blocks of time that are 3-4 hours throughout the week to work 9-10 hours. An honest discussion with your PI about what you would like to accomplish and how much of a class load you have for the semester would be a great place to start for determining your upcoming research schedule.




I would say it depends on whether or not you are getting credit/paid for doing research. If you are dong it for credit, your first semester of research is gonna be taken as pass/fail and you are only required 6 hours a week for that minimum (so the first semester I did research, I did only 6 hours a week). After that, I got a letter grade the next semester and I was required a minimum of 9 hours a week which is what I do currently and get a letter grade for. So really is up to you; if doing for credit, I recommend 6 hours a week then starting the following semester, 9 hours a week. If that needs to be changed later on, professors are mostly very understanding




Its 1.5% monthly late payment interest




I think there’s a very small late fee attached to it if you wait too long, but if it’s within 48 hours I think you should be fine. You won’t get gouged either way.




!RemindMe




If they do charge you a late fee, try calling the Bursar office and ask to get it reversed. We did this once, and it worked. Can't hurt to ask.




I believe there's a late fee, check the bursar/tuition page for more info.




I think there’s a two-day grace period actually




I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/u_awesomenessonaplate] [Paying tuition late](https://www.reddit.com/r/u_AwesomenessOnAPlate/comments/cnawo2/paying_tuition_late/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*




I never realized she was a Cornell alum, though I did enjoy reading some of her works in the English classes here. Her passing is a loss. RIP.




Masters at Cornell, undergrad at Howard.




Had this last semester (not in ILR, though). I had one class MWF that ended halfway through the semester and from then on I only had four classes each on T/TH.

Most people viewed this as desirable but I personally didn't like it. Classes are my excuse to get up in the morning, so I wasted a lot of time MWF because I would not go to campus unless I had some other obligation, which was usually in the afternoon. It messed with my sleep schedule because I had nothing in the morning MWFSSu but had to wake up early T/TH, so I was late a lot.  T/TH was also draining, and I found it difficult to do anything that wasn't related to classes on those days, as I had at most a 20 minute break during normal "working" hours.  If you are very organized and good at time management, as well as able to find motivation to go to campus to work/study every day, then this may work well, but I personally needed more structure and am bad at managing time on my own.

The flexibility may be useful in cases where you really need additional time to finish something, study, or just catch up on sleep. You can also travel on Friday and come back Monday if you have the means/free time, but I was rarely able to do this.

However, doing this schedule was the only way I could take all the classes I wanted, and in my opinion it's not worth sacrificing classes for an "optimal" schedule (unless you can easily swap classes between semesters). Although it wasn't ideal for me and I felt a bit more burnt out/unmotivated than other semesters with a similar workload but different schedule, I don't regret my decision to stick with it because I got all the classes/requirements I wanted.




You can take 3580 without 2510. In fact, 2510 is easier if you've taken 3580 first.




Your confused about the pre/corequisites.  Chem3570 or Chem1570 is a pre or corequisite for 2510.

Chem2510 and Chem3580 can be taken with or without each other.




Take it in the spring with 3580. Most people do this




Hey there!

Ditto the other comments. CHEM 2510 is an optional co-requisite of CHEM 3580 (you can take it after, but you have to take it eventually). I highly recommend taking it at the same time as 3580 in the Spring. Those two classes go hand in hand together!




Thanks for all of your responses! I can't take it in the upcoming Spring because of the time conflict with my other major requirement (which only has one lecture time). So I guess I'll just take it after 3580 then if I drop it this fall.




Either they know you'll be there and hold it for you. Or they send it to the forwarding address...




I would guess they would hold it for you. But I don't think it would hurt to email them and let them know of the situation. They are certainly more likely to give you an informed answer than this sub. 

mailservices@cornell.edu

Believe it or not, every office at Cornell has a website and can be contacted by email.

https://fcs.cornell.edu/mail




especially if you get a forced triple!




I LOVED my lowrise (not even sarcasm) \[Alumni\].

While the facilities are.. let's say outdated -- the arrangement really makes you close to the people :D




Can’t tell if this is satire, but I really hope not seeing as I’m in Low Rise 7 😭




Yeah I got Low Rise 7. I'm just hoping my roommate and the other people in the dorm and chill and that we get along well so that there is at least a silver lining.




Having a room in one of the shabbier dorm buildings is just motivation to make friends elsewhere and spend more time with them




Fuck you it’s too soon




If you're really big into nature and wildlife, Low Rise 6 is for you!

Cause Id really prefered to just sleep outside

Honestly tho, there were bats and silverfish, so if you like animals, you're on good company!




Your hair is the bomb




>Imagine going to cornell and watching a vid of someone going to cornell




Where do you park your car on campus ?




[removed]




[Here you go](http://cceschoharie-otsego.org/4-h-youth-development/schoharie-county-4-h/4-h-afterschool/club-activities/snake-club)




The interview questions are mostly behavioral (tELL Me ABouT a tIMe WhEN yOU fACeD a ConFLiCt), some clubs will do case interviews as well.  


In the end, there's no right answer and since it's so competitive the only way to get in is to convince the interviewers you'd be a cool person to have in the club.




Dm me if you are still interested. I'm in a bunch on campus :)




[deleted]




You can download an .ical from the course scheduler and then import it to google calendar...




You should contact the place that issued your ticket instead.  I did the same thing when I ordered something off from Amazon and had it ship to my 2018 dorm address...  I contacted Amazon and they corrected it. Also, I think the housing sends it back because Amazon said they received the item and gave me full refund.




Former Townhouse resident here. You can definitely lift your bed, the ceiling is pretty high!




Like this person on Quora said, Ken Dryden is a contender. Another one is Joe Nieuwendyk, another former NHL player. 500-goal scorer (a feat achieved by only 45 players, including him), 1000-point scorer (goals + assists), three-time Stanley Cup winner (1989, 1999, 2003), one-time Conn Smythe winner (playoffs MVP, 1999), and one-time Calder Trophy winner (rookie of the year).




Kyle Dake, probably.

Between 2010 and 2013, Dake became only the third wrestler in NCAA history to win four NCAA Division I titles. Among four-time champions, Dake is the only one to win a title in four different weight classes, and the only one not to redshirt. 

He’s easily one of the top 5 collegiate wrestlers of all time.




Its either some olympian that nobody knows off the top of their head or Ken Dryden




Depends what you're looking for in terms of "athlete". Are you looking at what they did at Cornell, or after? Does fame of being in a more noted sport count more? Since Dryden, Nieuwendyk, and Dake have all been mentioned here, I'll throw out a couple more contenders (Marinaro was also mentioned in the Quora thread):

Ed Marinaro ([Football, 1969-1971](https://www.sports-reference.com/cfb/players/ed-marinaro-1.html)):

* First running back in NCAA history to run for 4,000 career rushing yards.
* Led the nation in rushing in both 1970 and 1971. 
* Runner-Up to Pat Sullivan for the Heisman Trophy in 1971.
* Won the 1971 Maxwell Award and the UPI College Football Player of the Year as the top player in college football.
* Set 16 NCAA records, and still holds two NCAA records: most rushes per game in a season (39.6 in 1971) and career average carries per game (34.0, 1969–71). 

[Rob Pannell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rob_Pannell) (Lacrosse 2009-2013):

* Fourth leading scorer in men's Division I history
* Holds the Cornell and Ivy League all-time scoring records. 
* NCAA's Outstanding Player of the Year in Men's Lacrosse in both 2011 and 2013. 
* Won the 2013 Tewaaraton Trophy, the most outstanding American college lacrosse player. 

If you expand out from athletic feats, and include post-Cornell coaching careers:

* [Pop Warner](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pop_Warner) (Football 1892-1894): Yes, this is the Pop Warner that "Pop Warner" football is named after. Not necessarily the most athletically significant, but is a coaching legend who is responsible for a lot of how football looks today. 
* [Bruce Arena](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Arena) (Soccer, 1972-1973): Again, largely known for coaching career after Cornell, including stints as USA men's national team coach. Was the goalie of the 1972 soccer team that reached the national semifinals.




 Jamie Gruebal-Poser. She's an amazing female bobsledder who has gone to multiple Olympics and is still competing. Besides her Olympic rings/medals, she's also known for her good sportsmanship and intelligence as a bobsled pilot.




I wouldn't say he is the best, but I would add in ultrarunner [Sage Cannaday](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sage_Canaday).  Qualified for the US Marathon Olympic trials in 2008 at only 21 years old. Has won and set course records on some of the most prestigious ultras in the US (Lake Sonoma 50k, North Face Endurance Challenge 50 miler) as well as winning the USA Track and Field Mountain Running championships. Has come in 11th in the Western States Endurance Run, America's most competitive and oldest 100 mile race. 12th in the Comrades 50 miler, which is the oldest ultra in the world. So not as big of a deal as some of these people, but still amazing, especially for a sport that is so unknown to most people.




I'm minoring, it's a pretty cool department and the stuff that you learn is really applicable across disciplines! All of my "listen to this" fun facts in the last 2 years have come from these classes; you learn a lot about how the modern world came to be/is. Lots of reading yes but the courses I've taken are pretty easy, it really depends on the professor. And because it's STEM-adjacent the writing assignments are graded a bit more lightly lol. I'd say go for it




Also curious




There is a nearby luthier, called Hickey's Violin Center. You could rent a violin there! I couldn't lug my cello back and forth between Ithaca and home, so I ended up bringing my cello there, and then storing it there over the summer, and renting a new one at home to practice. Then I'll only bring it home when I graduate.

&#x200B;

As for auditioning... We have a few different orchestras, chamber, symphony, and open. Auditioning itself was okay. But I guess as a cello, I had slightly less competition. I think there were 27? cellos that applied last fall and 24 or 25 got in (altogether in symphony and chamber).

Chamber was an absolute mess last year, with a lot of big administrative issues, and I really overall had an awful time. (The people were GREAT though!) As also an engineering student, i found that I was really bad at managing my time, and the chamber rehearsals were always late in the day, which meant on Tuesdays and Thursdays, I had class from 9 am until 4:15, and then rehearsal from 4 45 to 7:15/30.  And was expected to be there by 4:30. So it essentially made my Tuesdays and Thursdays really bad. Another thing to keep in mind is that most prelims are Tuesday and Thursday nights at 7:30 PM. So if you are a crammer, you can't really miss rehearsal (i mean you /can/ but its not recommended and might hurt your grade)

Symphony I heard was really great, and the rehs are on the same schedule but on Mon/Wed. The only thing is that Chamber is so much smaller and felt more intimate and you got to know more people and make more friends. I can't speak for my friends in symphony but being friends with every single person you're playing with feels a lot harder when theres like 60 of them lol

I dont really know anything about the open one, just that it exists and doesnt cut anyone. But could be good for playing just once in a while.

You also have the option of smaller chamber groups, like quartets and stuff, as well as private lessons. You just have to reach out to the music department profs/teachers.

So I guess it's up to you and decide if you think its worth it! Feel free to pm me if you have any more questions!




There are a couple of options for you: the more "official" would be the Cornell Symphony or Chamber Orchestras. If you're interested in auditioning, sign up at cuorchestra.org soon!

Otherwise, there is a group called open orchestra  for string players that makes no cuts. Hope this helps!




Even if you end up not having the time to commit to something 'official' it's definitely worth to bring (unless it's super, super expensive) for your own leisure, stress-relief, etc. especially since you said you really enjoy playing it. 

Getting in some hobby-time/free-time is super important.




Just bring it, I decided to audition for orchestra a week beforehand and spent probably a day’s practice on the music, and I obviously didn’t get in. Maybe if you started practicing the audition music now, you might get in. 

Even if you don’t even consider going for orchestra or any other music program, just bring your violin, it doesn’t take up so much space and it really is fun to just have it handy whenever you want to jam.




Hey! To answer the last part of your question— if you’re interested in learning another instrument, consider joining marching or pep band! A lot of former (and current!) orchestra people have picked up another instrument in one of these bands since coming to college. The sections leaders will teach you how to play it even if you’ve never picked it up before, and you can borrow the instruments from the band. Pep band especially is a low time commitment— go to as many things, or as few things, as you want (but more events = more points = more likely to get to play for hockey games)




ANYTHING GOES: yes, it is a musical theatre troupe but we are currently growing the band (aka pit orchestra) there’s literally only a time commitment for one week of the entire semester which is show week. It’s an awesome family. feel free to pm. Edit: I also play violin for it and have been playing in it for three years and the music is pretty easy but still fun




ubering there is usually around $70-80 iirc? cheaper if you split the fare with someone. You could also taxi... I think other than there isnt much options :(




1. The bus I normally use is Trailways (https://trailwaysny.com/). It's $17 one way ($38 round trip with fees) but it only runs once or twice a day between Ithaca and Syracuse airport. 

2. The Ithaca Airline Limousine (https://www.ithacaairlinelimousine.com/to-syracuse) is a taxi service that makes multiple trips per day. More flexible but significantly more expensive ($140 round trip). Based on other comment that seems to be similar to the price of just using Uber.




There are a lot of buses to Syracuse from the Green Street station in downtown Ithaca.




Greyhound buses are p cheap and go from Hancock Airport to Ithaca bus station




I don't think it means anything unless you're a high schooler who wants to apply to Cornell




Unfortunately doesn't mean anything




It's just an ad, so it's pretty meaningless




They want you to apply based on some search criteria, doesn't mean you'll get in or anything.




I'm guessing you recently took the SAT or PSAT. Or perhaps some other test. You'll soon find your mailbox deluged with mail from many, many colleges.




There's something similar in the Mann Library, it has basic OTC cold/flu medicine.




lmao im not about to pay $5 for a bandaid though




IIRC, there is something *like* this in the Tower Lounge.




Nah, they prefer the 50% markup in nasties.




[removed]




Wait...for real? Time to save up money then 

I don't have a car, sorry OP




Call Cornell health and ask about your situation, including your doubts and privacy concerns.




I’ve been getting mental health care at Cornell health for the past 1.5 years (counseling and started taking meds), my parents have no idea. I pay the copays myself through the bursar with my own checking account, where the $10 charge just shows up as “Cornell Health”. However my parents are also oblivious about how their bursar logins work so unless the bill is for tuition I tell them to not even bother looking because I’ll just pay it. If your parents are more tech-savvy they may check the bursar bills each month and may question the repeated health charges. I’m unsure of whether or not my parents get billed anything through their health insurance, but tbh as long as their premiums aren’t going up I don’t think they actually check- so again, if your parents are the type to closely monitor their bills and insurance statements this may be different.

TL;DR: if your parents are on top of their shit they may find out, otherwise probably not. Cornell Health will not call or otherwise notify your parents that you are receiving care unless there is an emergency.




You might want to call your insurance company and ask whether they can send any explanation of benefits (EOB) documents directly to you instead of to your home address. Cornell Health may not trigger them, but something like a prescription might, so it's better to be cautious. Many insurance companies have forms you can fill out to add confidentiality.




CAPS is pretty good at keeping mental health visits discreet if you tell them going in that your family etc would have a problem with you seeking treatment. Usually they’d just waive the co-pay or figure out a way for you to pay without the charge posting to your bursar. Alternatively, you can use the free mental health resources on campus. EARS is a student run peer counselling program based out of the deans office in Willard Straight (and by phone) that’s completely free. Also check out the free Let’s Talk walk-in counselling sessions that CAPS does in select locations around campus. They’re usually very busy though so each session is limited to 15 mins

The student org page is currently under construction so I can no longer link you to the EARS org page but here’s the link to Let’s Talk:

https://health.cornell.edu/services/mental-health-care/lets-talk




Food Science is such a cool major with so much you can do at each level of education.  Apart from Cornell, just do some research into the major itself.




Working at the FDA.




my friend got a job building GMO corn to kill people and destroy family farming to make way for big monsonto




Out of college, do ppl get jobs in food development or is that not the norm?




What time on the 28th does the engineering registrar open? I want to get there early bc i fucked up my schedule a bit and want to move a class




What’s the walk like from class to class? Do you run? Is it enough time?




Anyone taking the 7 year Pre-vet program? Would you recommend it?

And a question for recent CALS admits: did you provide history on CALS in your “why here” essay, or just why it is a good place for you?




(Sorry this is a repost from last thread, but didn't get any responses... won't try again after this lol). I'm only allowed to visit one school, unfortunately. I'm very interested in Cornell, but ig I shouldn't visit if I stand no chance. Would appreciate input on whether you guys think I have any chance @ Cornell ED, esp since I'm OOS & HumanEc is a contract college

**Demographic:** white male; large public HS in TX w/ MANY T20 acceptances per yr

**Intended Major**: Human Development in Human Ecology

**ACT:** 35C (36E, 32M, 34R, 36S); 8 essay

**SAT II:** taking Math 2 (scoring \~740 on Barrons, so PROBABLY 740+ on real test?), Physics, and Literature this month

**GPA:** 4.0 UW/4.44W 

**Rank:** 59/1365 (while not the best still, almost def looks a little better when viewed in the context of my school... college counselor that knows a lot about my school agreed)

**APs:**

* Past: AP Comp Sci Principles (4); WHAP (4); HGAP (5)
* 11th: Spanish Lang (5); English Lang (5); APUSH (5); Psych (5); Comp Sci A (4)
* Next year: (all AP) Bio, Gov, Macro, Spanish Lit, English Lit, BC Calc

**ECs:**

* Psychology Club Member in 11th; President 12th (very big club, membership well within the 100s)  

   * already in the works of initiating a mental health awareness project at my school thru psych club, something that admin. has notoriously ignored esp. in the wake of certain bad events; assuming all goes well, i expect this to be pretty significant and i have many plans for it (i don't want to say too much, but i'd appreciate if this is factored into your decision)
* Guitar for 9 years (I play flamenco and will tie this to my interest in Spanish
   * performances at retirement homes on occasion
* Employee @ math tutoring center; 4 days/wk over summer (20 hrs/wk), 2 days/wk during school 11-12
* Private tutor in many subjects (from elementary math to some ACT) 9-12
   * have worked with multiple students with learning difficulties
* Tutor middle schoolers that are required to stay after bc of low grades every Friday for 4 hrs 9-12
* 100+ hrs volunteering w/ Habitat for Humanity ReStore and The Salvation Army
* State-wide Spanish contest 10-12
* Top 500 in Overwatch, won some competitions
* NHS 9-12 (\~100 volunteer hours)
* Spanish Honor Society 11-12 (\~20 volunteer hours, 10 of which are spanish-related)
* Computer Club member 11th

**Awards:**

* few small-level Overwatch tournament wins (\~$1.5k in total winnings personally, pools are split btwn 6 ppl)
* National Spanish Exam: 9th, honorable mention; 10th, bronze; 11th, 94 percentile (first time % was reported)
* National AP Scholar, AP Scholar w/ Distinction, AP Scholar
* 2 Student Choice Awards in 10th; teachers could only give to 1 male and 1 female

**Recs:**

* AP SpLang 8/10
* AP EngLang 8/10
* AP Psych (BIG MAYBE, he's v forgetful lol); if it happens tho... solid 9.5/10
* Counselor  incredibly average :( my counselor that knew me well left, so i have a completely new senior counselor at a massive school, unlucky 

**Essays:** still polishing, good so far... 7-8/10; supplementary essay (imo) should be very impactful and demonstrate exactly why I chose humanec




PLANNING TO APPLY ED btw
Demographics: Male, Indian, Northwest,
parents make like 200k+ a year (we live in an area with a high CoL if that is relevant)

SAT: 1550

APs: AP Comp Sci, AP World, APUSH, AP BIO, AP Physics C, AP Lang, AP CALC AB/BC

GPA (unweighted): 3.85 upward trend junior year (3.7 first semester cuz of a breakup->4.0 second semester)

Major: can i say undeclared? would my major effect my chances?

EC's:

President of Computer Programming Club
Badminton
Tutoring
Volunteered at religious center
Improv Classes

Recs: AP Lang teacher and AP Comp Sci/ AP Calc teacher. AP Lang rec will likely be extremely positive.




Made a separate post about this on a different sub and was told to try here. How do I improve my chances of getting into Cornell?


I’m really interested in attending Cornell University’s SHA.

I would like to pursue a Master’s in Management of Hospitality or Master in Science of Hotel Administration which I can continue with a PhD.

I will be coming from the Philippines so I need to take an English proficiency exam. Is there a way to waive this? 

I haven’t taken a GRE yet so I can’t do a “chance” me post. I am planning to take the exam in November or December this year.

I graduated last 2017 as a Magna Cum Laude of my batch with a degree in International Travel Management. I spent a year working in a ski resort and a hotel in Michigan.

What can I add to my experiences to better my chances of admission in the future if I’m not yet qualified now? And what GRE score should I aim for? 

Thank you so much! Any help will be appreciated. And if there’s someone I can talk to through messages, it’ll be an honor.




Chance me for MS (or possibly PhD) programs in ECE (VLSI concentration)

  


Under grad major: Electrical and Electronics engineering

  


GPA: 8.28/10 (Top 20 school in India and top 500 for EEE according to qs)

  


GRE: 163Q 155V 4.5AWA

  


TOEFL: 107 (I don't think this matters much but in case it's needed)

  


One patent publication (final examination pending)

  


One conference paper in VLSI

  


One paper (also in VLSI) that will be in review (or published) by the time I apply

  


LORs: 2 good and 1 decent

  


Multiple side projects... However they're not \*really\* related to my concentration.

  


2.5 months of work experience in a different field (ML and app dev)

  


Am I competitive for the MS or PhD programs here?




I'm an undergrad student thinking of applying to the Cornell's MPS program in Applied Statistics.

Of course everyone knows Cornell programs are super competitive to get in and like every other prospective applicant I'm having doubts about my chances. This is not a chance me post but I would like to know about the expectations from strong applications. 

I really think a one year statistics focused master degree would be perfect for me and that is why I'm so much interested in this program.

Any help from the grad students of this sub is appreciated.




I’m about to start my freshman year at Santa Clara University, and I just wanted to know if anyone has tips on transferring into the College of Arts and Sciences. Specifically for Computer Science. I got rejected the first time around, but I’m hoping that I can strengthen my application and transfer in. I can provide stats if needed.




[deleted]




**Chance me?**

Intended major: Animal Science (CALS)

Ethnicity/Gender: White/Asian Female (from Nevada)

Weighted GPA: 4.629

Unweighted GPA: 3.829 (mayyy get lower next semester...) 

Class rank: 42/770 (not too competitive public high school)

ACT: 31, gonna attempt a 33 in September

SAT II: 760 Biology E and 680 on Math 2 which I plan on retaking in October

APs: I was not the best at the exams lol
* World History (3)
* Biology (3)
* Lang (3)
* US History (2) not submitting 
* Psychology (5) 

Senior APs: Making 10 in total

* Environmental Science
* Calculus AB
* French Lang & Culture
* Government
* IB Literature

Extracurriculars: pretty basic and most not long term...
* 4 years varsity track (will be) - only awards I got were most improved pole vaulter (given by my coach) and NIAA All-State Academic Team which just means you were on a varsity sport with 4.0 the last semester
* 3 years varsity tennis (joined sophomore year, team manager for one year)
* Years 6-10 Orchestra - we played at a national conference in Chicago which required auditions, don't know if this is worth saying or not
* Private violin lessons for 2 years
* Private piano lessons for 4 or 5 years
* HOSA (STEM club) for 1 year, no awards or special positions
* Vegan club for 1 year, just a member
* Animal Advocate club 1 year, also just a member
* NHS, going on my second year - volunteered at a book prep place which cleaned up donated books, for my individual hours. 40+ hours so far, continuing
* Gonna attempt to volunteer with an animal rescue but that will probably be included in my NHS activity section

Summer activities: these were both short and I don't know if it's worth anything, but I've never had a part-time or summer job.
* 2 weeks at a language camp in Paris - probably won’t mention 
* 2 weeks volunteering at a wildlife orphanage in Zimbabwe (50 hours)

I’m spending lots of my time on my essay, especially the Cornell specific one, and I’m gonna try to get lots of help on it.

Probably won’t have the best LORs but I’ll try to get them to talk about my passion for the environment a little, cause my English teacher knows from my projects that it was something I cared about




hi! if anyone is available to chance me for SHA please please please DM me! I really appreciate it :)




Hey guys, I'm considering ED'ing to Cornell as a math major, but I'm worried that I won't have enough time to balance my social life and academic courses, so I wanted to ask a few questions to any current math majors at Cornell:

* How taxing is your schedule? Do you have to put in insane amounts of effort just to keep up?
* Would you say that because of your course you find yourself extremely restricted in terms of social events? ( I don't mean like missing a couple of parties or whatever, because I now that sometimes sacrifices must be made, but if you find yourself seriously cut off please let me know.)
* How smart would you say you were in high school? ( I'm not anything exceptional, like I'm no state champion or anything but I am well above average, I'd say top 5%)
* What is the environment like at Cornell? I don't want to end up going to a school that's filled with prep school kids all of one background.

Thank you for any responses, they are all appreciated




Hi, incoming freshman here

I want to know what brands/types of winter apparel I need to get to survive the winter. I’ve lived in Florida my whole life, so I’ve never seen snow and haven’t truly experienced a real winter. I’m planning on buying a winter coat at Burlington’s when I get over there, some gloves, and I checked a subreddit talking about winter boots and they made me think buying boots is more complicated than I originally thought. Now I wonder how much research I need to put in to getting the proper gear. I’ve got a couple beanies and long pants already.

A second question I’ve wondered is how much will we really be in the snow walking to classes. I know that some buildings do connect each other and freshman have unlimited bus fare, but when that is all accounted for, I want to know how much do we walk in frigid weather.

Thank you for your responses!




Can a biology major message me? I have some questions to ask! :)




Probably applying RD but that might change

White male from NY applying to CAS probably for physics

GPA: 98/100
SAT: 700RW 800M, retaking for the reading score
SAT II: Math 2 800, Physics 800

Course load is as rigorous as I can possibly take, also self studied Calc 3 this summer although I have no way to prove it, I did most of the mit problem sets if that means anything

ECs:

-	Science Olympiad Team Captain, won bronze medals at states, gold/silver at Dartmouth invitational, organized a local middle school competition for 2 years
-	Physics Research with professor for 2 years, currently writing a paper to submit for publication
-	FTC Robotics Programmer: 32nd place at worlds in Detroit, Vermont winning alliance captain
-	Trombone: Accepted to conference all state twice, section leader in 3 school groups and 1 community group, play in a jazz combo group that does public local gigs and did a few in New Orleans
-	Adirondack 46er meaning that I climbed the 46 highest mountains in New York
-	self taught programming
-	piano lessons
-	amnesty international 
-	cross country and track
-	model un head delegate

Awards: Got a 95th percentile score on the amc 12 but the year was given late due to a snow storm so I couldn’t qualify for the AIME, Rensselaer medalist, some other basic ones




How do you research for the cornell specific essay ?




Please chance me for ED Cornell Hotel School!

1. UW GPA: between 3.74-3.77

2. Weighted GPA: Around 3.9-4 ? (Unsure)

3. Most rigorous classes at my school 

4. ACT highest composite: 31 (Will retake before application deadline)

5. Captain of Debate Club

6. National Honor Society

7. Spanish Honor Society

8. Music Honor Society

9. Research intern during summers for 3 years (accumulated many regional awards)

10. Volunteer at food bank (2 hrs per week)

11. Intern as customer service for a business

12. In-state female, not first gen etc.

13. APs: 3's and 4's

&#x200B;

I'm super fascinated by SHA and my first choice and I would really appreciate any advice on getting in/constructive criticism. Thanks!




honestly think my chances are low but making this post anyway just to see others opinions. I am a caucasian female hoping to pursue a chemistry major at Cornell. 

Grades:
SAT: 1380 (690 in Math, 690 in English) - planning to take one more time to bump it up a little if I can find the time. If not, I’m also looking into taking an ACT (shooting for 31 or above). 
SAT Subject Tests: planning to take Chemistry and Physics
GPA: weighted around 99 (we dont know officially until this coming fall). 
Rank: we find out in fall, but I am fairly confident that I am in the top 25 of my class (10-15%)
APs: Biology (3), Language and Composition (4), US History (3), Environmental Sciences (4), taking AP Calc AB and AP Chemistry

Recommendation Letters: 
planning to give to Global History teacher- I was the top student in his class by far and I do volunteer work for him, including organizing and executing a charity race at a local farm. He also offered me a tutoring job on the clarinet, which I have done for 2 years now. 
I’m also planning to get a letter from my band teacher, who has always admitted to seeing me as a highly-valued student with great talent and work ethic, I have been in his advanced wind ensemble for two years and plan to perform in the pit of the school musical this year. 

Honor Societies:
National Honor Society
French Honor Society
Tri-M Honor Society (music honor society)

Others:
I play school volleyball, JV for 2 years and Varsity for 2 years. Planning to run for a spot as team captain this year. 

I have scored mastery on all of my regents exams, so I will obtain a mastery regents diploma for Math and Science. 

I’m joining the school’s Science Olympiad team, preferably competing in a chemistry lab competition. 
 
I devote a large portion of my time to my class, through volunteering to help out with homecoming skits by building props and organizing the skit, by creating decorations and decorating our hallways for the holidays, through hours of set-up for Junior Prom, and by taking a leader role in preparing our grade for Class Competition. 

I am hoping to participate in an All County Band this year, which would be my second year playing in it. I also have played in the NYSSMA music festival for 3 years and received a 97/100 or above each time. 

I’ve completed over 100 hours of community service throughout my high school career:
-Running and assisting with middle school volleyball tryouts for 3 years
-Competing in a charity volleyball marathon at the high school for 2 years
-Organizing and executing a charity race at a farm nearby
-Counseling a sports camp at my high school for 2 years
-Tutoring an underclassman in Algebra 2 during my lunch period for 1 year
-Participating in an Awareness Walk for Type I Diabetes

Job Experience:
-I have been employed at Ralph’s Italian Ices since April 2019
-I tutor a younger student on the clarinet, I have done this for a period of around 10 weeks for 2 years so far. 

thanks for any feedback!!




What is the acceptance rate for students at community colleges looking to transfer? I know Cornell has the highest rate among all the ivies. I have a 3.7 and part of the honors program at my CC.




 Chance me ED!

Intended Major:Biomedical Engineering / Engineering / Biology

Is high school competitive or a feeder school: Competitive Public School

Demographics:

Race: Korean Male

First Gen or URM (Y/N): N

Stats

GPA (UW/W): 3.85 / 4.32

Ranking and Course Rigor: No Ranking - Taking almost all available APs

ACT : 35

SAT Subjects: 800 Chem 800 Physics 800 Math II C 800 Biology

AP/IB Scores: 5 Ap Stat 5 Ap Calc BC 5 Ap Physics C E/M 5 Ap Physics C M 5 AP CSP

Extracurriculars w/ very brief description

1.) Columbia Science Honors Program

2.) School Selected Internship for Surgical Methodologies

3.) Acceptance to AIME / 90 on AMC 12 / Honors in AMC 8 / 10

4.) Top 22 in State wide Physics Competition Rank 9 In State wide Team Physics Competition

5.) Internship at Summer camp 30 Hours

6.) Hospital Volunteer 150 Hours

7.) Lead Percussion at Orchestra Volunteer at Elder Homes 250 Hours

8.) IT Internship 130 Hours

9.) Physics Club 4 years, Chemistry Club 4 years, Spanish Club 4 years, Math Team 4 years Top 1/2 in School

10.) Lead Percussion at School Pit Orchestra 3 years




What does it mean when I don't have a hold listed in student essentials but I also don't have the green check mark that means I am registered in the university. Am I missing something?




An electronics undergrad (class 2019) here.  Wish to pursue a graduate program in the electrical and computer engineering  starting next fall. I'm taking my GRE test in a week. What according to you people is a safe test score to be admitted into the aforementioned course.?




International Student from Nepal (**ED)**

**Intended Major**: Computer Science

**SAT**: Expecting \~1500

**Grades:**

A\*A\*A\*A in Physics, Computer Science (Self studied in A2 Level), Mathematics and Further Mathematics respectively in Cambridge International A-Levels (**Rank: 1/120)**

GPA 3.8 in National Level Examination (Grade 10) (**Rank: 3/160)**

85% in Grade 9 (**Rank:** Top 1%)

**ECs:**

* Co-founder of A-Levels Mathematics Society in my school
   * Organized first ever mathematics program in the A-Levels department
   * Organizing a national level mathematics Olympiad for A-Level students
* Executive Member of Computer Science Club
   * Organized various programs within the school
   * Organized an IT quiz where multiple schools participated
* Participated in a few maths and science competitions
   * High achievement award in a national level Maths competition
   * Regional Excellence award in a Science Olympiad organized by India
* Tutoring students in A-Level Computer Science
* Self taught programmer
   * Have made a few programs using Java and Python (not published)
   * Created a game using Unity and C# (not published)
* 200+ hours of Community Service

**Awards:**

* Outstanding Cambridge Learner Award for gaining First Place in Nepal in the category Best Across 4 AS Subjects
* Award for Excellence in Academics (A-Levels)
* Award for Excellence in Academics (10th grade)

**Recs:**

* Counselor: Above Average
* Mathematics teacher: 9/10
* Computer Science teacher: 8/10

**Essays:** 7/10




Whats the fav past time (except crying during exam 😂) ?




Like stealing from the rich type of thing? Or archery




Was wondering the same. I’m guessing there are enough degenerates from r/wallstreetbets to start a club if there isn’t one already though.




You trynna invest?




That’d be cool




Start it




PM me




No, I tried real hard throughout July but in the end I couldn't get them to excuse me for only having emergency coverage in Ithaca . I rarely go to the doctor and certainly do not plan to in Ithaca, but seeing as I have to pay 3k in a single semester I might as well go everytime I have a cold.




HOWDY you BIG RED SLUT📕📙📒📗📘📓💨 It’s almost ORIENTATION WEEK ✔️📝❌at WHORENELL UNIVERSITY 👍🐻 so be sure to BEAT the HELL out of MEET & GREET✋📖 and BEAT THAT MEAT ✋😩💦 Remember, C’s get DICKgrees! 🎓📜🎓📜 Be sure to visit Central CUMpus, CatherWOOD Library🏛🏛, SKEETon house 🏫🍽️, or maybe even KRO(t)CH Library 👖😏 this OH 😩 week.🤓 We’ve got to DISQUALIFY ❌✖️ procrastination 💤from the SA🗳️🗳️because IT'S TIME FOR MARTHA'S WILD RIDE: ANALyzing FUCKtions in COCKulus 📈📉, Looking at BONDAGE in WHOREgo ⛓⚗️, selling out to Goldman SUCKS in eCUMnomics👙💋💶, contemplating COCK in philosophy 🤔📖🧐📃💋, and studying DICKstra's algorithm for CUMputer Science💻💦👅. Take a heavy 😩 course LOAD 💦 to get pounded by FINALS. Finals... 😳😭🤓... More like FINAL-ly time⌚️to SUCK some professor DICK 👨🏻‍🏫🍆👅 for that 🅰️‼️‼️😂👌💦 Send ➡️ this to 2️⃣ 0️⃣ redASS Hornell girls 👧🏽 and boys 👦🏽 who got curves ↪️ like a physics prelim⚛️⚛️ Get. 5️⃣🔙 and you’ll get dick 🍆👀longer ↔️ than the Libe Cafe lines☕️😩. Get 🔟🔙 and someone will give YOU their COCKtower tonight ⏱️🗼😩.




Best shitpost of the summer by far.




Wow tbt that whole “losing virginity over reddit” thing




Fake account -- a real prefrosh would call it by its full name, "Library Slope"




Listen up. First things first don’t use condoms. The kids here are low testosterone mother fuckers so no chances of getting pregnant. 
On that matter make sure to keep up with your studies, I recommenced having audio books using AirPods, thus allowing for fingering and learning.
Lastly start with your suite mates and work your down the building, we don’t tolerate discrimination here.




Reddit age checks out




city boyz still up by 100 late in the 3rd




It’s curved and tough to calculate your grade before it ends, but you can get a general idea by how many standard deviations below the mean you are (consistently ~1.5 below is not good). That being said, worrying won’t really help so just try your hardest and keep on going!




CS1110 is not even remotely full this year. We got Bailey. There is enough room that I am opening it to Masters students for the first time in 5 years.




This is general advice for any classes you want that are full: **Attend the class**. If there is a waitlist, get onto the waitlist ASAP. For classes without a waitlist, keep an eye out during add/drop dates, and use [CourseGrab](https://coursegrab.cornellappdev.com/). Be ready because people ARE going to drop the class.

In regards to CS 1110, there's for sure a waitlist, and there's definitely a lot of people vying for a spot in the class. Talk to Walker, get on the waitlist, go to class - **you'll be fine**.

Personal opinion though? **Take CS 2110.** Unless you remember absolutely nothing about coding and/or you really want to take a class with the professor,

# ALWAYS TAKE THE CREDIT.

1110 is great to learn foundations for computer programming (especially with my boy Walker White), but you might as well dive right into data structures in 2110.




It was really fucking annoying




Students were being held at gunpoint and forced to authenticate via the Duo Mobile © app for iPhone or Android. The university eventually decided it wasn't worth the bad publicity.




I’ve still gotten it when I had to log on to a few things, but not student center anymore thank god. Is dual-authentication through Duo officially over?




I don't really get why dual factor annoys people. You know you can set it to remember you for 24-h right? How hard is it to need your phone for thirty seconds, once a day in order to protect your data and the university's data from virtually 100% of phishers? You can also get a yubikey and keep it plugged into your laptop and cut the 30 seconds down to 5 seconds.




Can we turn it back on optionally?




Gotta say it wasn’t really annoying, I just chose the call option for the dual log-in 🤷‍♂️




Workday doesn't either




Yes this is common




I've been in the High Rises, and I've only really seen lofted beds with desks under them in triples. But yes, it's possible!




If you choose to bunk your bed, you can put your desk under it I think




Just, dont hit your head...




Idk i only heard they gave some good citation tips 🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️




Lol I got recommended this post on a little "similar communities" thing on Reddit (have no affiliation with Cornell). I was at Purdue for a year, but spent all of my childhood in the area. Meme game is weak. Good at engineering and nothing else. Tons of dedicated gamers. More diverse than my current university




Well I thought Cornell had a shitty mascot (Big Red...wtf?) Until I heard about the Boilermakers...




If you live in a dorm, most beds should have the ability to be raised, and you can ask maintenance to do it for you.

But you could also buy bed raisers from most shopping centers for around $10-15?

I would recommend raising the bed to a level where you can easily sit onto the bed.




if you google “cornell bed lofting” it will come up and maintenance does it for free. my bed was lofted cause it had to be because i was in a forced triple and around april i wanted it down a notch and they did it for me the next day. you can ask for it whenever you want throughout the year but i know there’s a window over the summer when they stop because they are getting all the rooms ready for move-in in august




My method of choice is 4 cinder blocks for <$5 at lowes




PM’ed!




People barely used the TV lounge other than events, so up to you if you wanna set up one in your suite.




Lived in a suite in Becker last year and we set up a small TV in our common room. We re-arranged the seating and I took the bookshelf off my desk and moved it into the common room to use as a TV stand. We never really optimized it by getting like a FireTV stick or anything, so we had to hook up one of our computers via HDMI to watch anything. 10/10 would recommend if you think you’ll use it!




What are your informal traditions ?




Fall 2020, it's offered every two years and was last offered Fall 2018. However, you may be interested in ECE 5310, which covers material that is very relevant to that field of study, and the teacher is good, highly recommend. Also, since the AEP department just got McMahon and it's unclear what he'll be teaching in the spring, it's not impossible that McMahon will teach a QIP course in Spring 2020.




I’m guessing most of the people who applied ED like me had Cornell as their first choice. Hopefully.




Me! I applied ED, got deferred, but remained committed. I still remember nervously sending my LOCI 4 years ago lol




CS major here. Cornell was my first choice. Harvard and Princeton CS are trash.




Applied ED, first choice got in, that was it :)




Yes, first choice, no regrets




Mine, my spouse's, my kid's first choice. We're a Cornell family.




Applied early decision, got deferred, and then ended up getting the "guaranteed transfer." After all of that Cornell has still been my first choice all along. I even chose to go to my local community college for this past year because I was scared of messing something up and not being able to go to Cornell. I am going to be a sophomore transfer in the fall, and I am beyond excited.




Applied ED :)




Yale and Northwestern were my top two, but needless to say, I'm extremely happy.

With Yale, I was definitely more in love with aspects of the school rather than the program that I was applying for (Chem), where as Cornell, I'm in love with both. At the beginning of the application season, I was definitely looking just at the prestige of the school, and honestly, I'm glad I didn't get in because I don't think I would be as happy as I am. At Northwestern, I applied as a Dual Degree Vocal Performance and Chemistry major, and while I told everyone my intent was to pursue a patent law after, I was definitely planning on working in opera or music after school and never getting to that law degree. Ultimately, I knew that the investment would not be worth the job I land afterwards, and though I would be fulfilled doing something I love, it would be difficult justifying paying full tuition at an out of state school if it didn't help me enter a field with jobs that would help me EASILY pay off debt and pay my bills.




Yep! Applied ED but got deferred, so I waited and joined my sophomore year. No regrets.




I had a 1210 SAT, a public city college was my realistic first pick, applied to Cornell as a joke but Cornell decided to take a chance on me. Thankful that they did.




Stanford and MIT were #1&2 but that didn’t happen lol




Cornell was where I wanted to go for most of my conscious life. Starting in middle school. Eventually, sometime in highschool I decided Caltech was my first pick. I applied ED and was rejected. I applied to Harvard too, and was waitlisted or deferred or whatever they call it.




Joining the hotel school this fall, I know Cornell is the only Ivy with a hotel school but even if Harvard or Yale or Princeton establishes one, there’s literally a 0% chance someone would prefer them over the hotel school




Applied ED and got in, that was that. It was my first pick for many reasons, and after my first year while the academics were hard for me to acclimate to I absolutely love it here and wouldn't trade my spot for one at any other school. I'm super excited to go back this fall and improve on what I didn't do so well, as well as get involved in more clubs and other opportunities on campus! Being home for 3 months made me really miss how many resources were always at my finger tips, and I hope to make better use of them this time around.




Was my first choice my whole life because of how top tier the animal science and veterinary programs are. No regrets. Loved every minute.




I think the project teams are only afiliated with engineering, but your best bet is to do some research online.




Depending on what you're studying in CALS, if there are engineering project teams that you would fit in with (for example some of the Bio based ones) I believe you can join them. They're not only for engineers.




you could call in here, maybe they have something like that? 

 [https://aap.cornell.edu/resources/photography-labs-and-print-media-facilities](https://aap.cornell.edu/resources/photography-labs-and-print-media-facilities) 

IC has a greenscreen facility as well, not sure of what it takes to get access. 

if you're really desperate and just need someone to stand in front of a green background and talk, there's a stairwell in uris (hall, not library) basement that has a wall painted greenscreen green




The slope is free, if you're budgetarily inclined




You don’t have to know any kind of graphic design software for the class beforehand. The class itself teaches concepts, but they also have workshops for the software outside of the lectures. 

The class is a lot of work, quite frankly. However, you get out of it what you put in. It’s not that it’s hard to get into, but that a lot of people enroll and drop later for time reasons. 

I took the class last semester, so if you have any other questions, feel free to PM me!




you can take the class in spring and still not pay.  As long as you take the test freshman year it’s free




If you take it as a freshman, you don't pay for the test. If you can't swim, you pay for the class and pass the makeup tests and save a life.




Swim test and swim course are two diff things and you can take them any time before you graduate. You must pass swim test before you graduate in order to get your diploma, you may enroll in beginner swimming so you learn how to swim and take the test in that class, taking the class doesn't mean you automatically pass the test (only if you take it twice then they auto pass you). Otherwise you can learn swimming on your own and take the test any other semesters you want without having to take the course.




Hey, another incoming freshman here! Someone linked me to here:
 https://pe.cornell.edu/requirements/swim-test-dates-and-times

when I asked a similar question.

It seem like if you take the test during orientation in any year, you don't have to pay, but if you take a make-up test during the school year if you're not a freshman, you have to pay $100. 

I also emailed the person whose contact info was on that page to ask if taking the swim class in spring is allowed if you skip or fail the swim test during orientation, and he said yes.




3410 doesn't use C++




force over area




There’s also the constant imposter syndrome lurking in your subconscious and the fact that you’ll always be comparing yourself to your peers wondering if you’ll ever be as successful as them




>eg-preping for an exam the day before not knowing a thing level or sitting with a incomplete essay before your deadline stress level stress ?

yes




Rather than individual stressful instances like you listed, Cornell is often considered stressful due to the way it stretches your time management capacity to new levels. 

There comes a point in each semester where you are expected to balance your time demands between your social life, research/job, extracurriculars, family, ect. and then toss the burden of deadlines, papers, assignments, and prelims that all seem to hit at once. 

Oh yeah and that little selfcare thing. It’s easy to forget about that one and to slowly spiral into a soul-sucking loop of terrible sleep and diet habits that together can manifest into the Cornell experience termed “stress”.




It’s what you make it, right? And partially depends on major.

Healthy eustress if you confidently manage your courses and EC’s. Pick up productive habits, Get rid of what doesn’t work. Seek constructive criticism. Believe in yourself and trust you can overcome challenges.

Bad stress if you put off due dates and exam preparation, waste time and energy worrying about what other ppl think, aka imposter syndrome.

Just be yourself, you belong wherever you say you belong and can achieve whatever you apply yourself to. You literally don’t have time for insecurity, other peoples opinions are fleeting and often shallow, and only the ones who believe in you are deep and of any matter. Anything else is enslaving yourself and giving your brain away to strangers.

So it’s a good challenging stress to get rid of the fluffy puffy stuff and get serious.




It’s like the examples you provided. I’m sure the stress level is the same at mostly any school but Ithaca’s shitty weather and Cornell’s lack of school spirit makes it even more worse here lol




This year it's the 13th.




It gets held at Appel no matter what, it's probably  fine




From what I’ve heard, it takes up to 5 days for a shipped item to arrive. Big red shipping has their own dates on the website (i don’t remember what they are)




[deleted]




Basic immunology is also a great course I feel like by the end I had a good understanding of immunology that I didn’t before so I’m glad I took it. An A is definitely possible but you have to keep up bc there is quite a lot to memorize.




I'm a big fan of timberland boots!  Not the generic tan work boots, but the more waterproof darker leather work/hiking ones.  VERY comfortable and they always last me many years.




I like ll bean boots. They’re really durable and waterproof, and don’t look blocky ass bob the builder shit like timbs




[deleted]




I recommend Wolverine. They are a great USA brand, they make insulated work boots that are awesome. I spend a ton of time outside in the winter standing around in them in northern NY and Vermont for my sport, and my feet are almost always toasty.




I would suggest getting Blundstones—I swear by them! A few things to keep in mind when shopping for boots: 

Cornell does a pretty okay job at removing snow on the main paths. Ice is a different story. You will often have days where some snow melts during the day and freezes again at night, so the name of the game is traction. Blundstones do a great job, a million times better than the classic bean boot in my opinion. 

Boots are an investment! It’s important to have boots that you can wear throughout the year, whether it’s for snow, rain, or just a nice fall day. I’ve found Blundies to have extremely flexible applications and honestly I think they look great. It’s very easy to dress them up or down and they’re pretty sleek so you won’t ever feel like you have cinderblocks strapped to your feet. 

Good luck!




I know how you feel, my shoes are all Cortez’s  and chucks. Timberlands are uncomfortable and aren’t actually good boots, especially for hiking and stuff. LL Bean  isn’t stylish but good for hiking. There are converse that exist that are good for bad weather and I have a pair. If you want I can find the exact name. However the best show you can get is the Nike Duckboot it’s more stylish than LL bean and more comfortable than Timbs.




red wings are super dope, highly recommend




I actually use Keen waterproof hiking boots (bought them the summer before freshman year for a hiking trip). They work great in the snow and are really versatile.




We legitimately dont care. Honestly I’m sick of the toxic comparison between Ivy’s and other top schools. I’m sick of the elitist comparison between engineers and other disciples of studies. I’m spending too much time around arrogant, prestige-seeking cunts that it’s getting to me. /sorry for rant




The banter is fun, they’re all good schools in their own right. The relationship is definitely distinct from other schools.




All are excellent as a whole with various programs that distinguish each from the others. The comparison and ranking of universities is tiresome and soul-sucking.




They're all fine, but you can tell that each school has its strong and weak points.

Also, Penn CIS needs to be shuttered, especially its MCIT program. I was recently an intern manager for two Penn MCITs, one Cornell CS sophomore, and one Harvard CS sophomore. The two sophomores far outperformed the Penn masters candidates.




Brown and Dartmouth are shit, the others are okay.




Cornell is such an outlier among the Ivies I'm really curious how it was part of the same athletic conference (which is what the Ivy League is, technically). In terms of history, school size, geographic location, it's different from the others. And of course Cornell has that weird private vs "statutory colleges" thing.

All the other Ivy schools are reasonably close to the coast and I-95 (Ok, except Dartmouth). I honestly feel bad for the sports teams that have to drive for hours in the middle of nowhere and spend all that time to get to Ithaca. And of course Cornell is the youngest, by a lot.

I might be completely wrong, but it seems to me that Syracuse University is more similar to Cornell than the other Ivies. Historically, geographically, and size-wise, anyway.




Rankings are BS. Like for example a really outstanding school in india which serves as the alma mater of several Fortune 500 CEOs was recently ranked in the 150s just cause of the terrible student teacher ratio it had. I mean, india has 1.3 billion people. Where are we gonna get that many teachers ? To sum it all up rankings DON’T matter. The best and only way to evaluate a program is to get in touch with professors and recent graduates and get their vibe on the program and then with a cool head decide for yourself.




Get on the dean’s list and you’ll be drowning in pussy




Think you gotta join a quartet




> Physics/CS double major

Good luck finding the woman (and the time) that is willing to bump nasties with *that*.




No opportunities to smash here, people simply don't have sex at Cornell. It's kind of a frumpy convent vibe and I would like it to stay that way. Nobody is touching *this* virgin hole! Keep that yucky thing to yourself!!




Are you a freshman? Take it easy, make a tinder, try not to get involved in the more toxic circles... the community here is a little sparse but you’ll eventually run into some really great people.




Follow the directions to Ithaca college




There's plenty of spirit at hockey games




Whiskey, vodka, rum AND tequila.




[deleted]




I did lessons last fall as a non-music major and it’s not that big of a commitment.  It really depends on who you’re taking lessons with, but most instructors do 14 lessons of 30, 45 or 60 minutes depending on what you want to pay for.  You find a time that works for both you and your instructor.  Although it’s pretty expensive, I recommend going for at least the 45 minute one.  I don’t know how the scholarships work but I do know one person who had one, so they’re definitely available.  I did s/u, so there wasn’t a ton of pressure on my end, but the more effort you put in, the more you can get out of it.




I did 45 minute lessons as a MechE and it ended up being fine with my busy schedule. My instructor was totally fine if we had to reschedule the lesson time and overall it was pretty chill. Would recommend if you enjoy playing your instrument. Also applying for the scholarship is as simple as when you fill out the lesson form in the music department office checking a box. I got over half off the price, if you are eligible for regular financial aid you should get at least something off the lessons




I've had great experiences at the UPS store in ctown. They've been great whenever I've wanted to ship stuff out before and they even do discounts!




I used Uncle Marty's and was very pleased. Marty (the owner) is really nice and helpful! They helped tape and package my box too. 

 I shipping a 20lb box to NYC via FedEx and it arrived the next day. Was \~$20. Haven't used UPS so I have no comment there.




As others are saying, and I regretted not doing, take the credits and place out.  TAs for the ensuing classes are very comfortable with explaining the potential information gaps that you miss in the Cornell classes, and the potential GPA hit of those two beefy classes is not worth the risk IMO.

The only AP credit I can say I'm glad that I didn't skip is PHYS 2213, the E&M Physics for Engineers course.  I barely scraped a 5 on the AP and was certain I wasn't comfortable enough to move into an E&M-heavy major without the class, and I found it to be the most enjoyable and worthwhile Physics class that I've taken as an Engineer.

Otherwise, take those credits and carry on.




100% do not take 2090. Class is a major pain in the ass and you have credit already, so go ahead and make things easier for yourself. I would also never take 1112, since the course doesn't cover much beyond AP physics. I think you should just skip both, if you're particularly interested in mechanics you could maybe take 1116 but I wouldn't necessarily recommend this.




Idk about chem but definitely skip phys 1112




Take PHYS 1116 and skip chem.




Piggybacking off of this post, is there any downside to taking and/or bombing a CASE exam? I haven’t studied at all yet, but if there’s no downside to giving it a shot, I might as well try, right?




Skip both classes, take all the ap credit you can




I would check with your RA/RHD. They have a good idea of what you can miss out on, as well as what you can do to make up "required" events.




I didn’t look far enough into the orientation booklet to even see that there were mandatory events. Didn’t go to a single one except for the Speak About It training. No one noticed or cared. Speak About It is the only real mandatory one where they’ll scan your ID in.




I think that’s the sexual violence presentation where they electronically scan you in to make sure you attend. You can probably just go to the presentation for another dorm, the auditorium is big.




At most of the required ones they scan your ID to take attendance - every year there are upperclassmen who are at the events with you because they realized that the “requirement” was a requirement




I’m an RA my advice is to talk with your RA about attending the timeslot for another dorm. Because as someone said earlier, they’ll just make you go next year




The only required required event is speak about it, the rest are just filler, I didn't go to any and was fine




Speak about it and I think maybe IDP... But some are still worth going to meet people




Hey there! Ditto the other reply; please feel absolutely free to message me. I’m a senior and I would love to help out! 😄




There will be some meet and greet events hosted by the LGBTQ resource center during orientation that I encourage you to attend if you are interested in learning more about events and networking. 

As for the party scene and such, there is a private FB group that coordinates them that you can be added to from an internal member for information and invites for queer parties.




I’m a part of a few on various social media platforms and GroupMe, so dm me if you want in I’ll add you where I can!




Hey! I’m a part of a few private groups on FB. DM and I can add you. I’m also always open to chat on here/in person. Best of luck! :)




Incoming sophomore transfer, interested as well!




Feel free to shoot me a PM on this matter




Why does this simultaneously feel like a shitpost and not a shitpost




Lmao chill bruh. You're getting way ahead of yourself here. Don't be one of those freshmen who comes in thinking they're all hot shit. Physics + Math + CS is a seriously hard workload (speaking from first-hand experience), and you're in for a very rude awakening if you think you're just gonna waltz in and get your choice of research as a first-year undergrad.

My advice is to actually get to Cornell and worry about acclimating to the academic environment there before making grand plans for your future.




I can say for certain that one way to get professors to notice you is to do well in the courses; I personally know someone who was invited to take a graduate seminar (or actually do some research, my memory's a bit hazy) by the professor after doing very well in PHYS 2214.

From personal experience, I tried talking to a couple of physics professors freshman year and it didn't really go anywhere, mostly because I wasn't persistent enough. (And because I was a freshman. There's (apparently?) a physics professor meme that freshmen don't really know stuff - for research - unless they have a serious background outside of the coursework. That is, you'll have to demonstrate that you really know stuff.)

edit: if this was a shitpost gg wp




Cornell has 24 thousand students. You have to pursposefully leave the giant Cornell bubble to interact with IC students.




My impression from Tinder is that they smoke a lot of weed and wear overalls




“I don’t think about you at all.”




I've only met people from IC through mutual friends. Nothing really super distinguishing I guess aside from humanities, esp theater and art, seeming to be more common amongst IC students. If there were any 'stereotypes' about IC students it would be that they're hipsters but I've met some super chill people from IC so def not always the case.




What's Ithaca College?




Theater, arts, etc.

Honestly, no disrespect but most Cornell students act like y'all don't even exist.




Being from the Northeast and involved in music in high school, IC was always a known name and highly-regarded for its music programs. I know you guys do theatre, music, and OT really well! Some people definitely look down on IC, but the school has strengths in fields that Cornell doesn’t, so we should be giving IC its due respect.




IC has nicer views imo




Not particularly smart- but the theatre kids are good at their craft.




Better looking, good share of artsy types, don't take school super seriously (not a completely fair statement, especially in comparison to Cornell), very likely to be seen at Moonies. I've interacted with people from IC a good amount and they've been good experiences.




Bob Iger went there




They throw some nice parties for the occasional weekends when Cornell frats just aren’t doing it for you anymore. Otherwise, I have a few friends from IC (made before college). They seem much more laid back and artsy but idk if that’s a general thing




Artsier and sportier. There’s not much overlap between cornell and IC programs so there really isn’t much of a rivalry. 

One thing I’ve always noticed is odd is that IC students exclusively drink downtown and Cornell students never drink downtown. Like I get that IC students might not want to drink in collegetown but the bar scene is kinda limited there.




I lived in a ckb single. They provide you a desk lamp, and even that I never used. You’re in a single after all, so just feel free to turn on the room lights.

Also, congrats on winning the dorm room lottery. You’re going to love it, lol




Desk lamps are provided in the dorm. The list that cornell gives you are pretty good at telling you what to bring.




Bring whatever you want and hide it before any inspections if it's against policy.




Panini Grill




Had a single in Bauer my freshman year and it was incredibly tiny. Less is more imo when it comes to packing as you don’t want to feel even more smothered by excess things. I’ve found that I generally don’t use a good part of the items I bring each year, and CKB is well stocked in general with regards to the kitchens. You are able to store some personal items in the kitchen if there is something special that you love like a rice cooker or small air frier.




As mentioned by others, I’d recommend applying to both! When I was a freshman, I applied to all of the software-based project teams — I’d recommend staying on the lookout for information sessions that project teams will be holding during the first few weeks of the semester, and you can talk to people on the team and see if what they’re working on is something you’re interested in.

Both AppDev and DTI also teach courses each semester that you can take, so I’d highly recommend those as well.

As a disclaimer, I’m on AppDev, so feel free to ping me if you have any specific questions!




There's no harm in applying for multiple. I do know of people who are in more than one, but whether you have time for it will heavily depend on your schedule. Most people seem to only be in one or at most two project teams.

I'm on DTI and it's been a ton of fun. I can't speak for AppDev, but DTI feels pretty tight knit, with lots of social events and people just hanging out in general, but not so much that it feels like a cult, which is a complaint I've heard from friends about certain other project teams. Overall, my experience with DTI has been incredibly positive.

To my understanding, AppDev develops apps specifically. DTI focuses more on "community impact" which means both hosting a lot more events within the community but also that our projects aren't solely limited to just apps (we do a fair amount of web stuff too).




I was on both teams for three years and just graduated. You can’t go wrong with either, they’re some of the best things about Cornell. 

1. It can’t hurt to apply for both, but make sure you want to be on both teams individually for their own reasons! Too many people apply just because it’s a project team, and we’re trying to weed out those people in initial rounds. 

2. It’s not easy to do two teams full time, especially if you want to get more involved. I personally care more about them than my classes, and my grades reflected that, but that was my call to make and I’m glad I did both. However, I wouldn’t recommend it to just anyone.

3. Both teams can be school project teams or mini fraternities (in the good ways) depending on how involved you want to be. I definitely made lifelong friends on both teams.

4. AppDev is about making mobile apps for consumers. DTI is about making software for community impact. DTI in my biased opinion goes a bit further to make impact through community-based initiatives. However, AppDev is the gold standard for teaching classes (something DTI has tried to emulate!), and part of the reason I have a job today.

I’ve been a developer, designer, and lead on both teams, AMA!




Regardless of the circlejerk, most project teams are a great activity to get involved in. DTI and AppDev are similar enough where you should definitely apply to both if that's what you are interested in. Pretty much the only time you shouldn't apply to a project team is if you're not interested in what they do. From experience people usually apply to a few teams

It's not that uncommon for people to do multiple project teams but it's an impossible commitment to be on more than one "serious" team.

I'm not on either team but I know people who are. Both teams do social events and such. You'll probably make a few close friends.

Iirc the biggest difference between DTI and AppDev is that AppDev almost exclusively makes mobile apps, while DTI has a few web projects. Check out their websites.




1. It's usually a good idea to apply for multiple project teams. Applications for project teams can be very competitive; if you apply to only one team you have more of a risk of not joining a team. (I checked our numbers out of curiosity; our acceptance rate was around 20% last fall, with five times more freshmen applicants than non-freshmen applicants. No comment on yield, lol.) Project teams are pretty popular. There were over 1,100 students in all of the project teams as of last semester.

2. In the *vast* majority of cases, people only do one project team. Doing multiple is rare, and a recipe for a ton of stress. Is it possible? It certainly depends on the project teams. The weekly commitment from a project team varies all over the place; maybe if someone picked two that are *very little* work they could pull it off. It's very difficult to balance the commitment, though. (I speak from experience. 2/10 would not recommend)

3. and 4. I'm not on either, so I'll let people who know what they're talking about weigh in. But... their websites look super interesting!




Seems like people have answered most of your question so I only have one thing to add.  


Project team leads/director decided last year that freshmen are only allowed to accept an offer from one project team, so you cannot participate in two at the same time as a freshman.




Thank you all for the replies, they're all really really helpful!! DTI is definitely my top choice, but my main concern is that if I only apply to DTI, I might not get on.

I guess my current plan is to apply to all of the teams that I'm interested in and hopefully I'll at least get on one? Thanks!




Thank you all for the replies, they're all really really helpful!! DTI is definitely my top choice, but my main concern is that if I only apply to DTI, I might not get on.

I guess my current plan is to apply to all of the teams that I'm interested in and hopefully I'll at least get on one? Thanks!




Most people at Cornell aren't in great shape. You'll be fine. The vast majority of classes are designed to scale to your personal fitness level and experience.




Barre classes are great here!! Not super intense but still good toning and stretches u out nice. Spin classes are good dependingg on the person, really low pressure all of it and if you become a regular at a specific class you get friendly with thw instructor and that makes it even better!!




The classes are good and definitely not intimidating. I went to many different types of classes over the years, from HIIT to restorative yoga. While you will likely have a few very fit people in the class, most people are average or beginner level and the atmosphere is always friendly and welcoming, never competitive or intimidating. You're always encouraged to modify the exercises to suit your own body, and taking rests is not frowned upon. To put it in perspective, once I became quite fit, most of the classes weren't too challenging; I think they're best suited to first timer-beginner-intermediate levels. Which for most people I think is ideal, it certainly was for me for many years. Enjoy your classes!!




If you’re talking about the wellness and fitness class, I took it, and it was very  beginner friendly, went into fundamentals of creating a personalized workout routine, and also gave nutritional advice.




I really like the yoga classes! Especially vinyasa and gentle flow. They aren't as instructive as some other yoga classes I've been to, but it's not too hard to pick up if you follow the instructor's movements.




Seconding the intro to yoga class. Yoga is pricey in the real world and the instructor when I was there was amazing. PE in college is actually a really wonderful thing — so much more interesting and way less awkward than high school gym. The trick is just to find something you find interesting.




They’d prob end up needing a psychiatrist too if they come to Ithaca




How do you feel about that?




Is there? I don't think so. There's a bunch of therapists with open practice which aren't full during the year. Everything about psychology on this subreddit seems to be bollocks.




Having interacted with a lot of the CAPS staff, I feel like they all need therapy as well just from working there.




Theres the enormous downside of living in Ithaca




I feel like they are in high demand in many places though




I worked in the RPCC dining hall freshman and sophomore year! You can work dinner most nights and then you get a free meal afterward (super appealing for me because I only had 7meals/week) super flexible shifts and i think it has the highest starting pay on campus. lots of opportunities for promotions too. I think you can just email the student managers at like rpdmanager@gmail.com for a job.




I’m a student manager at the dining hall in RPCC, RPME!! I was actually just about to make a post about this because I know this is when freshmen start looking for jobs. We’re super low commitment you can work one shift/5 hours a week and you get a free meal at every shift!!! No work experience required and work-study isn’t required either. We also pay better than library jobs and is super convenient if you live on north campus!! Email us at rpdmanager@gmail.com or you can apply  [here](https://cornelldining.applicantstack.com/x/detail/a278ju3pnyoz) just put ‘robert purcell marketplace eatery’ as your first choice!!




Obviously RPCC is super convenient, but you should also consider:

*  A library job is basically a free study period, especially if you choose a less busy one
* Trillium + a lot of cafés have better food than RPCC and will be less busy (if you time it right)
* Gym, or rock climbing wall – you get a free pass and its pretty fun!




I worked in one of the smaller libraries on campus for work study - suuuuper chill job, I legitimately used it to catch up on homework or print stuff for free since there was barely any work. Definitely would recommend!




When I was a freshman, I worked at North Star, another dining hall. Works like any other dining hall - same wage, flexible shifts, free meal every shift, etc. You can contact them at [nstarstudentmanagers@gmail.com](mailto:nstarstudentmanagers@gmail.com). 

Here are some other options:

* I tried using the [student job search tool](https://studentjobs.seo.cornell.edu/) Cornell has, but I didn't have very good experiences when I actually went to those jobs. I'd still say it's worth a shot, especially for exploring available jobs.
* You may be eligible to be a member of the course staff for a course you've taken, and you can be paid in either dollars or graduation credits. The CS department always hires every semester, but they can be selective. No idea about other departments.




Working a job at the Statler where you get tipped will be the most lucrative (bellstand/Banfi's) but the shifts are probably longer and a little more inflexible than other jobs.




Dining halls are always hiring, the "easy" jobs (receptionist and ID scanners at gyms, libraries, etc.) are probably already gone, those are really popular. Check out student employment site.




I despised working in a dining hall--2 semesters, freshman year--and got a job tutoring and in a library sophomore year. I highly recommend those over working in RPCC or Northstar (worked in both). I have literally never been as miserable working as I had been in a dining hall, but, hey, that's just me. I would say that I enjoyed working with the permanent staff at RPCC, but I really couldn't stand the other student supervisors/workers. Also, I always felt disgusting right after and needed a long shower. Get a library job, it's extra time for studying.




Applications are open throughout all of September if I'm remembering correctly, but the project teams aren't allowed to even look at freshman applicants until the beginning of October because of a new policy they added last year, so there's no rush. Interviews happen at different rates for different teams, but it's generally around the middle of October, with decisions coming a little after that. 

Every team will definitely have a couple info sessions where they go over the specific details for them, because it varies per team. I recommend going to several to try and talk to members of the teams you're interested in. Also I would highly highly highly advise you not to get attached to any specific team, because they accept so few people and make decisions basically arbitrarily.




Just wanna give a disclaimer that project teams aren't the be-all end-all of your Cornell experience, esp since the ones you're looking at are quite competitive. Definitely still apply if you're interested but if you don't get on one it's not a big deal at all and don't let any pricks from the more pretentious project teams that need not be named condescend to you about how crucial they are, I've had to deal with that spiel far too many times. There's a whole slew of issues with the way project teams are run which I won't get into but approaching it casually is definitely the way to go.




The majority of teams recruit in September, with the later period in October for freshmen. However, there are a couple teams which are not technically listed as “project teams” and don’t have to abide by that rule (for us maybe because we are funded differently and do some work that’s licensed by a company?). So last year we recruited earlier. That hopefully won’t be the case this year, but if you pay attention to email newsletter like SWE or SHPE, as well as keeping an eye out for quarter cards on tables in engineering buildings, you won’t miss any recruitments.




If you're on the College of Engineering group on FB then you'll definitely see announcements, also teams tend to hold info sessions/give out quartercards around campus so it is difficult to miss.   


This year there is still a separate, later freshman application period but I believe the time window has moved up a few weeks compared to last year. So keep an eye out for announcements towards the end of September.




Wow, didn’t know Genesis is touring! No Phil Collins I’m assuming?




I'm going. Just bought a ticket




Someone [posted a few days ago](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/brgvwh/looking_for_housing_switch_out_of_becker/) that they wanted to switch out of a double in Becker to a single anywhere.




If you’re a freshman, I think you have to live on north.




I think it's the Bills, but not sure. My sophomore year, my roommate, some friends, and I split NFL redzone and would just watch in my dorm room. It ended up being pretty cheap per person and worked out well.




The 506sports website will show you a map of which games are local. It depends on which game is big, who else is on at the time, etc.




It will change depending on the games, IIRC. Easiest way is to just check this site the Wed/Thursday before the game: http://506sports.com/




Rumbleponies, dude.




They’ve got all the games playing in RPCC during the year




Just pirate whatever game you want. There’s a sub r/nflstreams




It’s Bills territory, but like someone else already said, you can catch all the games in RPCC!




Lots of roles are listed here: [https://hr.cornell.edu/career-navigator](https://hr.cornell.edu/career-navigator)




The further down the alphabet the higher the position/ bigger salary. A C position would be considered entry level while an F position would be a manager or director position.




Just look up the the job on glass door and get an estimate from that. The only place it varies widely is with professors where it changes heavily from assistant to associate to chaired professor (and a lot of professors income comes from consulting for industrial companies offering their knowledge too in some fields). Typical administrative jobs are much more set in stone. Also depending on the industry you most likely won’t make more money until your a full professor.




Just dont go anywhere unless its after 6pm or weekends




This depends on where you live:
North campus - walk;
West campus - walk;
Collegetown - walk.

*Just kidding*, I would highly recommend getting the **15 ride bus pass for $20** at GreenStar in Collegetown. It's refillable, and super convenient if you're running late to an important class or trying to go somewhere far on the weekdays. (I use about < 3 of these a semester). 
If you think you'll want to ride the TCAT *more than 150 times in the year*, get an **unlimited bus pass**.

Also, keep in mind that the **buses are free after 6pm on weekdays, and all day on weekends!** 

Although maybe think about getting a bike! It's convenient, environmentally-friendly, and fun for the most part. Especially closer to school start and school end, you'll want to capitalize on the great weather with a bike.

Hope that helps!




Walk




Back in my day we used to walk from campus to Triphammer Mall.




I think a bus pass is pretty great! I live down on buffalo and it’s way easier to be motivated to go to a 9 am in 30 degree weather if you don’t have to walk! Also getting to the mall, wegmans, aldi is really easy with a bus pass. 

You can get one of those top-up-as-you-go tcards at green star too if you feel like you won’t take $200 worth of rides!




I used to bike around campus and to downtown Ithaca. Worked great for me.




Find a cheap road bike on Craigslist or Facebook marketplace that's near your size, that'll cover you as far as getting around campus goes. You can just do groceries after 6 or on weekends.




I like to walk if I’m going anywhere on campus, and otherwise I don’t really go anywhere when it’s not after 6 or a weekend; that works pretty well for me




I bought the bus pass, but that's because I live downtown (no way I'm walking that hill every day).




Finally some good music




Lashes by Melissa in the commons! She's super sweet




Not in ECE but the general course of action is for you to look up people yourself to try and figure out what research *you* are interested in. Then reach out via email to see if you can meet with them. Asking here likely isn’t the best way to get a good fit, because you’d be allowing someone else to make your academic decisions for you.

[Here’s](https://www.ece.cornell.edu/ece/faculty-directory) the link to the ECE faculty list. Try to narrow down fields you’d be interested in, and shoot whoever an email. Good luck!




I’m a prospective student (sorry if this question doesn’t belong here) but as someone interested in majoring in ECE, should I be focusing on research in HS? I thought research was mainly for pre-med/scientists. Also is ECE one of the harder majors to get into in Cornell?




Former RA here: yes, technically you should NOT put up flags since they are a fire hazard. But, if you know when they perform fire/safety inspections, you can take the flag down and put it back up later, no problem. If your RA/RHD is chill, check with them about fire inspection dates.




There are fire inspections every so often so if they go in your room they’ll make you remove it (or I guess take it down if you’re not there). You can get it fireproofed and approved to be hung up though.




Yes, flags are illegal in Ithaca.




depends on what flag it is




anecdotally my roommate had a texas flag in his room all of freshman year and it was fine




Lol I had 5 full-size flags in my room and I got a months warning for a fire inspection. I took them down then put them back up promptly. No problem




FWIW, at some colleges, it's a bit of a thing for the international students to hang flags outside of the room, simply hanging down from the windows.  That might be an option that gets around the fire codes?




Nobody really cares, just take it down when they announce fire inspections.




Lol no




I've never heard of any mandatory seminar you have to go to for study abroad, but it might depend on program. The Study Abroad advisers are super flexible - just email then or walk in for a meeting some time to talk about it. It generally isn't too difficult to study abroad, just keep up your grades and meet some prior requirements.

Knowledge of language generally depends on what university you're studying at. Generally, you'll have to take 3-4 semesters of language, but theres options in England, Australia, Denmark, etc, where you'll be fine knowing only English.




there are hella study abroad workshops all over campus where u can talk to someone and find out everything u need to know. they literally happen all the time you’ll catch one




Something to note is the language requirement isn’t a hard requirement since Cornell doesn’t offer every language. I studied abroad in Budapest and I didn’t have to learn any Hungarian prior because Cornell doesn’t offer it. I just had to take a (very minimal) language course while I was there.




they swipe you in to the CALS meeting so they have your attendance on your record. it basically is a meeting that goes over the basics for studying abroad through CALS and sometimes past students who went abroad speak at them. I loved my exchange semester and wish I could have gone for a year!




Just came back from a semester abroad, so I hope I can answer your questions. 

1) For the required workshop, plenty are offered every semester. You are required to attend one the semester before you leave, so keep that in mind your fall semester sophomore year if you want to travel in the spring. 

2) For the language requirement, it depends on the program as others have mentioned. I studied at Wageningen University in the Netherlands which is a pure life science university with no humanities. As such, there were no Dutch courses offered, so the requirement to take a course in the language there was waived. As the courses are taught in English, I did not have to take a language course prior to leaving as well. It would be useful (and courteous) to have some working knowledge of the language prior to leaving, but it certainly is not required in places that speak English impeccably well such as the Netherlands. 

3) As for my experience, I loved it! It is certainly one of those things you will look back on and treasure due to just how unique of an opportunity it is. I’m glad you’re enthusiast about traveling, and I would recommend once you get established this fall and choose an advisor to sit down and discuss abroad options. It won’t hurt to have a general course plan for your 4 years to know where certain distribution requirements will fall and if you can knockout some abroad.




I got an outside scholarship last year. Check was sent to me, I cashed it, and I didn’t tell Cornell about it. A lot of other people do this and it’s  no big deal.




Cornell essentially stealing your scholarships by decreasing your financial aid in the amount of the award is far more wrong. Don't worry about it.




From another perspective: I got one big outside scholarship, renewable for 4 years. I DID tell Cornell, and they send it over to them. I'm in the same situation, reduced down through other things. They add the money to my bursar, and I get a pretty large refund disbursement every semester. I don't think it's every dollar, but it's almost every dollar; I turn it right back around and pay my tuition. So yes, it can work out to tell them. 

But I'm still not sure I'd 100% advise it for you.




Don't send it. Never send it to them. Cash it in.




I got several small corporate awards, and as far as I can remember, no one from Cornell asked or cared. I thought of it as books and equipment (I was a STEM student) money.




Cash it and pay your tuition (or room/board/whatever) with it. Do not tell Cornell about it and it won’t matter. If the check is made out to you, it’s your money and you can do what you want with it. That’s not being sneaky, it’s making an educated financial decision.




Don’t worry about it. I got two checks last summer and cashed it in myself. As long as the check is in your name it shouldn’t be a problem




You pay the amount listed plus loan value, and email finaid to say you dont want the loans.




CFCU. With them around, it’s hard to recommend a commercial bank, especially for a student.




Put all your money into BRBs. Withdraw or trade as needed




Best local bank would probably be CFCU, but I'd recommend getting a Bank of America debit card, since there are BoA ATMs around campus and in Collegetown.




I heard good things about CFCU. I used Tompkins and it was fine until senior year, then it really shit the bed. And also pain in the ass now to use since I’m in the city




If you’re like a majority of people who don’t need to step into a bank. Use Bank of America they got ATMs on campus so no fees and Good phone customer service




I've used Tompkins Trust for 6 years - idk what goes into a good bank but they didn't lose any of my money so I guess I'd recommend them 😅




I LOVED ECE 2300—if you take it in the fall you’ll get it with Albonesi and he’s amazing. It’s a super interesting class, not that hard (but a lot of lab work) and I think super relevant to the cs major. And if you take that you can take cs 3420 instead of 3410




its so weird cuz i always hear people say they've heard people say 2700 is bad but i've never actually heard people directly say 2700 is bad....idk why it has a bad reputation...i guess maybe a past teacher or something idk.....but i took it last semester and it's a rlly good class (in terms of everything...teacher, workload, chill and helpful TA's) and the same professor is teaching it this upcoming semester so i would recommend taking it...and even if u havent taken ap stats.....it doesnt rlly matter




I believe ECE 3100 also counts as an ENGRD and a probability course (double check the roster though I could be wrong) if you want to satisfy both. I personally took 2700 which was convenient to satisfy probability and ENGRD but it wasn't an amazing class (not a lot of work though just not the best teacher + stupid grading). If I could redo it, I would have probably done 2300 and taken BTRY as my prob/tech class, but 2700 really isn't a terrible option if needed (but on the flipside, Bracy was an amazing teacher and having her was worth the struggle of 3410). 

Tl;dr there is no correct answer really! You can't really go wrong and not taking an ideal ENGRD won't ruin your college career (there are also many others I didnt mention here if you want to do something else!).




If you’re looking to make things easy then you could take 2300, not because 2300 is easy but because then you can take 3420 over 3410 later on which should spread out your workload. I mean, if you’re looking for easy you’re not going to find it. 

You can take 2700 to fulfill the probability requirement but you probably know that already. I haven’t taken the class so I can’t speak to those impressions but I do know some people that took 2700 and didn’t not like it. 

Now, the reason why they don’t make you take a specific class for the engrd slot is because you can actually put whatever you want there and it will probably work. I’m going to make some assumptions and say that you have some emotions and interests towards other technical subjects, and I encourage you to look through the list of them to see what you would like. I guess in this sense there would still be classes you would want to avoid, i.e. really hard ones like 2100, 2220. In general the hard ones required for some majors.




Well 2110 you have to take. I wouldn't especially recommend 2700 - having taken it myself in one of its BETTER semesters, with Henderson who has not taught it in a while, it was sometimes dull but not awful. However, it was curved to a B- median, which is super yikes. People recommend 2700 because it fulfills both ENGRD and prob requirements for CS, but I think you should take CS 4850 to fulfill the prob requirement instead unless you really aren't interested in CS 4850. Nor would I particularly recommend 2300, especially now that 3410 has been toned down, although I haven't taken this one but do have friends who have. My overall recommendation would just be to take an ENGRD that interests you, and that you think you will enjoy and do well in, rather than taking an ENGRD that fulfills some requirement like 2700 or 2640.




wait why not take 2110 as ENGRD lol  


also, I actually had a great time in 2700 when Sean Hendersen taught it, but he hasn't taught it in the last 2 years I think




How much?




Thanks, you just saved my ass




Just got an email saying they have allowed late submissions until August 4th because they've sent previous emails that people haven't received.




What is SHP and why would I want to waive enrollment? (incoming freshman)




I sent my waiver and they received it and approved it but on my Cornell To Do List it says incomplete... should I worry?




I filled it out last year so I clicked on the “fill in with previous data” thing but it won’t let me change my address. Am I fine just to leave it as my old one?




Cheapest grocery store in town, if you can get there, is Aldi's on Rt 13, the second cheapest is maybe Walmart, then Target, then Tops. There's a BJ's wholesale in the Triphammer area, $55/year and you get two cards, so you could split it, but I never ponied up so I don't know if their stuff is cheap. I suspect you'll have a storage problem anyway.

Absent 7/11, which is in fact cheap as hell, restaurant prices trend high here. A cheap Chinese combo at Apollo's in Collegetown is $10 (it would be $8 in my home town) and imo is close to the cheapest way to get carbs/meat/vegetables in one hot meal.

Last thing: take care of yourself. They really do not make it easy to get fed here off the meal plan, and people who are giving you advice (including me) probably either have meal plans or lots of money. If you have to take out a loan to be healthy, do it. The bank can't repo your health. If you feel stuck during the semester, dm me, I've usually got swipes.




Probably overload here, but hope it helps.

Do you have a rice cooker? They are like $15 bucks at wal-mart, or cheaper if you go dump-n-run. But save the line and madness, and go to wally world/target or get on amazon.

Regarding bulk, if you are Pell recipient, you can get a sweet 13% discount at [Greenstar](https://greenstar.coop/flower/), and then buy rice in bulk for really cheap. My partner and I buy the big 25# bag of rice \[11.3kg\] for $36 bucks and it lasts us two hungry hippos quite a while. That's $31.3 with flower discount for enough rice to last a month or two. Throw a tablespoon of miso paste in the rice cooker with two fingers of water above the rice level, or salt and oil, and just set it and fuhgettit. Add some split peas for protein. If you have time to soak, try out some beans, just soak them all with the rice overnight, or start in the morning and cook at night.

If you want to get fancy get some dressing, otherwise, go light with some olive oil+vinegar. Throw some kale or collard greens in with the dressing, and you're golden. Kale lasts longer than those packs of salads, and has more nutrients. Make enough to last the week, and you only have to cook 1x on weekend.

Regarding going out to eat on campus, Manndible in the Mann library has some massive burritos for $8. Veg is cheaper so just go veggie haha, as long as you eat complete proteins eg beans+rice you will get over your DRI of protein don't worry. Martha's cafe has some hearty salads.  Greenstar collegetown also has awesome soups and sandwiches for cheap, and tasty local made veg-sushi and whatnot. Trillium has some okay wraps and bean bowls togo, same for cafe in [Olin](https://living.cornell.edu/dine/wheretoeat/cafescoffeehouses/amitbhatialibecafe.cfm). Cheers!

Let me know if you have any other cooking, grocery, savin-dat-money questions.




Just about any meal off campus will be less than an all you can eat dining hall dinner. Swipes come out to $16+/dinner so if you eat for less at a restaurant, which is easy imo, you are saving money on that. 


To further optimize your eating habits for health and expenses, try to get into meal prepping for at least half of your weekly meals. Ive been trying it this summer and it's not too bad. Depending on your proficiency with kitchen tools and techniques you can spend a few hours on one day to make simple healthy and filling stuff in bulk. 


I'd recommend an instapot to get started. They r on sale rn at most places cuz college shopping season and they can make rice, soup, and pretty much anything a conventional pressure cooker can do. They can also be used to sautee and do unexpected things like bake cakes and make yogurt.

Edit: formatting




The only way to get something cheap and nutritious is to make it yourself. If you're a beginner in cooking, or otherwise not super into cooking, you can buy an instant pot and get into the fad. You can throw almost anything in it, cook for and hour, bam, meal's ready. Easily google many recipes. If you do want to learn to cook, then you might wanna ask for suggestions in subreddits about cooking, there's several of those.

&#x200B;

More than buying groceries in bulk, the key is to buy things that are nutrient-dense, and cost-effectively so. Oats, milk, eggs, rice, beans, big trays of chicken, whatever vegetables and fruits are in season fresh, whatever canned produce is cheap. Keeping these as your basics, adding whatever's currently on sale (Aldi's has a very nice sale section for meats), and learning a bit about basic cooking and seasoning can get you very far for very cheap.  


Dining halls actually aren't that expensive if you use them for all-you-can-eat brunch after skipping breakfast, and just overload on like 6 dishes. I do this like once a month, and I see people eating 1-2 plates and wasting their money. If you don't mind the horrified looks, it's fun.




They have the bread and butter pantry in Annabel Taylor which can really help give you staples and some pre-made food for free. In addition, many Co-ops have meal plans for maybe $1000 or so a year where you can get dinner and lunch (which are leftovers from dinner) most days. However, you do have to spend 3-4 hours once a week cooking. Also, the free food group chat is lit - they mention a lot of events where you can get free food from.




Get grocery delivery from rosie. I think it was like 5 dollars fee and only have to donit every now and then




I second everything everyone said above, especially re: slow cookers, rice cookers, and food prep. There is a service on campus for students who need food - see this article for details: [https://cornellsun.com/2019/02/06/student-run-food-pantry-provides-brings-free-food-to-campus/](https://cornellsun.com/2019/02/06/student-run-food-pantry-provides-brings-free-food-to-campus/)




Can’t beat a cheeseburger hotdog at 7/11 for $1-2




Echo everything people have said before. 

If you're looking to cook most your meals, consider the following:

1. Go to Aldi's (cheap)
2. Buy a rice-cooker (convenient)
3. Buy a slow-cooker (easy, delicious meals)

If you're looking to buy food, Collegetown is tough. Your cheapest options will probably be:

1. Little Thai ($7.25 for 2 steam table items + white rice)
2. Apollo's ($9-10 for steam table or cooked-to-order dishes)
3. Asian Noodle House ($11 for a dish)




For whatever reason nobody has mentioned crockpots/slow-cookers. They are a godsend if you are trying to live frugally while still wanting to not eat shit tasting food *and* being healthy. 

You can get a decent one for like $30-60 bucks. 

Once you have it just throw whatever the fuck in it with some spices before classes in the morning and then eat for late lunch, dinner, etc. then save the leftovers (and eat those whenever).

If you buy cheap/on sale meat, beans, potatoes, veggies, etc. you can have really good tasting, nutritious meals for like 0 effort and for probably 3-5 bucks a meal (or cheaper if you bail on meat which is usually the most expensive).




/r/frugal often has threads about eating healthy on a low budget. Good luck to you.




You're a freshman living on campus? There are kitchens on the floor but honestly not sure how convenient it will be for you to cook regularly there, if off campus then cooking is the best method. Otherwise you might have to live off of college town food.




I still don't have it yet (had some issues). You're not the only one.




I'm not sure what's going on your end, but I'm sure every year there's enough bureaucratic bs going on to leave some people in the mud. I wouldn't worry too much, just stay in touch with the financial aid office. If you haven't personally spoken to them about it that could clear up a lot.




Try not to panic, this happens often. There's enough lag time involved that you'll be able to get in and talk to them in person at the beginning of the semester if it still hasn't come through, and any late fees they charge you will get waived if it's their fault. Just keep pestering them and it'll get sorted out eventually. I basically needed to do that every semester, I do not envy you, it's a real headache.




Damn, they've reviewed my appeal before you even got you decision... That's fucked




Just commenting to say I also haven’t gotten mine until this late before. Just keep harassing them and they’ll fix yours first so you shut up.




I don't know if you have already called them, but if you haven't, I'd do that. It keeps you at the top of the "problems we need to fix pile".




Just to give an update, I still have not received mine and asked them if it will be done by Wednesday, when the bill is due. They said the were not sure. When asked if I would get charged for being late on the bill, they said: "please pay as much as you can to lower your finance charge." That is such a fucked up response, they're the fucking financial aid office, if I could afford to pay I wouldn't be there.




Don't think so. I find that BRBs + credit/debit card is enough to cover everything.




What is a CornellCard?




Cornell card is really convenient imo. Far more versatile than brbs.




I don't think there's any reason NOT to get one.  If your parents are willing to cover certain expenses (e.g. medical costs) and not others, it's easy to have the bursar to use for those and a credit card to use for your personal stuff.  Doesn't matter much though, just a convenience.




I've never used it. 

Seeing as that you're here for a semester, you'll be fine without it!




No.




They are accepting applications and recruiting pretty much all year. My roommate, who also has dining hall work experience at Appel our freshman year, walked in and got a job no problem. Dining hall employees are in demand most of the time. You should sign up during your first week or two and since you've already done it, you'll probably get the job no problem.




They were probably phished




Because people fall for phishing emails and then get their account info stolen and the people doing the phishing then use the Cornell emails they got to send even more.




They aren't really from cornell.edu, they are spoofed. The sender address is forged. Some will even spoof your friends' email addresss, or your own. The mail looks like it comes from your friends, but it doesn't.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_spoofing




Not worth waiting, people rave because Diciccio is easygoing and has created a straightforward structure for the class that Wells will probably follow. The material isn't terribly difficult (even with no prior experience) and you don't need Diciccio specifically to master it.




I had Wells for another course (Theory Stats) and I think he's pretty great, teaching could be a bit disorganized but he's a great person and final grading isn't too harsh.




Did you know it was made by the same dude who made Student Center?




The Founder of Workday, shockingly, also went to Cornell. Dave Duffield. Yes, that Duffield.




How could you post something so controversial yet so brave?




When the entire company’s middle management is basically everyone who got laid off from Oracle and Dell, and they force everyone there to use a GUI-based programming language that’s essentially a reskinned Scratch, of fucking course anything they manage to weakly shit out is going to be the equivalent of a dumpster fire behind an abortion clinic.




Workday for me has been pretty good, by no means perfect but if you see some of the other systems out there companies typically use Workday doesn’t look so bad. There are definitely some non-sensical errors that should be fixed though.




Low-key I like it




Why is everything made by Cornell alumni trash, Blackboard, Workday, StudentCenter(?), Lyft...




^/s




I’m 97% sure that class is an approved depth course so long as you take NS 1150 or 1220 as a breadth course. If you PM me I can send you some of my stuff regarding planning out the major, I’m about to be a junior




You can use NS 3150 as a depth course as long as you took NS 1150/1220 first. I used it as mine. But you can’t use any one course to fill more than one requirement. Pm me if you have any more questions about the major




I teach for COE and my program area does not give PE credit for teaching. That being said I have already taken 3 COE classes and have a long list of more I want to take so.... ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯ your program coordinator would be happy to answer any questions, I’m sure. Would recommend taking advantage of the instructor discount, especially if there’s any of the big expeditions of various sorts you’ve been eyeing!

Edit: and another random thought, the first aid classes (WFA/WFR) should count as well, so if you’re ever thinking of taking those that could be a good option.




I think it depends on the course and supervisors. I remember asking this and being told that they could try to finesse something, but not to count on it. You should definitely ask though.




You can do it right now- the link is here:  

[https://living.cornell.edu/dine/mealplans/apply-for-a-meal-plan.cfm](https://living.cornell.edu/dine/mealplans/apply-for-a-meal-plan.cfm)




You can do it whenever on the Cornell dining website.




I think parking permits for 2019-20 aren’t available to buy until Aug 1.




Yup! I actually just got a normal uber though I only had two large suitcases and two small ones- I know a lot of people who have done the same :)




 I can help you if you want for a small price!




I did the the same thing! An uber took care of it and I even did a final loop round on the bus with a box. My driver was very chill with it




Just pay someone on campus, post on FB.




I mean you can probably get away with ignoring them, but I'd email finaid.




Loans are automatically accepted in my experience. If you want to cancel them, the way to do it is to send financial aid an email - it’s pretty easy, I’ve had to do it before




I did this by emailing the financial aid office




Your loan won’t pay until you sign the Promissory note but I’d email/call fin aid as well




amen to that. Duffield is infested.




It's not healthy to go through college while pregnant.




top kek




Most of this is actually unironically true.




If you’re worried about winter maintenance, I’d recommend avoiding bringing it up at all your second semester. We get snow until April, and the roads stay covered in salt until we leave. 

You can park on North campus but its expensive as shit. There may be street parking further north but it sounds like you wouldn’t be down for that.




If you haven't lived in a snowy area before, I can't emphasize to you enough how much salty roads will mess with your car. They can cause a lot of premature rusting, especially in exhaust systems. If you really, really care about your car, you can treat the undercarriage with a rust block (usually lanolin, which means you car will smell like burning sheep for a few days). It may need more than one treatment over the winter, and it still requires good preventative cleaning. Even just sitting in a parking lot, you may have rust. Parking on-street increases that likelihood. All of the plastic trim pieces on your Type R are also going to become big snow-catchers!

Another side note about cold weather -- make sure you buy the right washer fluid. Fluids sold in the south will freeze at too high a temperature for up here, potentially bursting your lines.

Hail is an additional concern if you park somewhere that is uncovered during the summer. Though it's rare for very bad storms to come through, it's not impossible.

The area has a lot of fun roads to drive when the weather is nice. Watkins Glen also has track days, and there are some auto clubs nearby.




I don't want you to take this the wrong way but this sounds a little tone deaf especially in 2019. Given their terrible effect on the environment, cars should be a privilege and a last ditch resort for transportation, not a lifestyle or right. I think students shouldn't have cars unless they have a disability and in fact most of Ithaca is walkable (or if you want to save time) accessible via public transit.

I get this kind of car attitude from 60 year olds because they'll be dead by the time shit really hits the fan, but we're going to be the ones inheriting the full brunt of climate crisis. The least we could do is respect and support policies that try to control carbon emissions.




What car is it?




Unpopular opinion from a strong swimmer, but I would take the class. Being a strong swimmer is a lifesaving skill. You don’t need to be a lifeguard to drag someone out of the water when no one else is around. If you’re in the ocean and get carried away with the current, you’re much more likely to be able to swim to safety, or at least stay afloat until you get help.

This isn’t just about passing a test, this is about gaining a really valuable skill.




Thanks for the advice everyone! I'll probably take the swim class. If any of you guys have taken it before, what was it like?




I think you should take the class, if for no other reason than for accountability. It would be all too easy to put off something really hard until the very last second, and you don't want a dumb swim test to stand in the way of graduation. Taking the class will force you to practice -- do they give the test at the end, too? Bc if so that would be an added bonus of having a test date to work towards.




Can you float on your back? I heard they reduced the requirements so the whole thing was freestyle.

If you can comfortably float then you can just kick for 3 lengths. I kind of did that when I took the swim test and I finished last, but passing is passing.




What stroke were you using? I’m not an amazing swimmer, but I used backstroke during the test and kind of kicked my way along, occasionally moving my arms and I did fine. However, it sounds to me like if you take the swimming test now, you won’t pass. If you think you could build up a little (using less intense strokes, going slower, etc.), you could possibly delay the test to spring or next fall. Otherwise take the L and do the swimming PE (since according to others, it’s not that bad)




I think you might be better off taking the class, just because it doesn't seem that fair put so much pressure on yourself to practice and pass the test w/o help/coaching. I'd recommend getting a kickboard or something to help build your stamina up (especially when it seems like you can pretty much pass if you just kick and kinda move your arms). Also make sure you warm up properly and all that, don't go all gung-ho when you immediately get into the pool. Good luck!




Elementary backstroke is probably the most energy efficient way to pass. Correct?




Just breast stroke or float




Do it on your back, as long as you can float and do the 3 laps you should be fine.




[deleted]




The class is really annoying (far away from other classes, having to change before/shower after, water is always cold, etc). I would just elementary backstroke all three laps and get it over with.




Just take the class at this point. The ability to not drown is one you'll actually want to have down pat.




Your questions show that you should probably take the intro to swim class, even if you could pass the swim test. Swimming is a great skill to know- it's good exercise, it's fun, and it could save your life. If you have trouble swimming three or even ten or twenty laps, you should take the time to get good at swimming. And besides, you need to take two PE classes to graduate.




1. There is no time limit, but for the swim test there will be a lot of people there taking their test so you will be holding up the line if you are slow. (But honestly I wouldn’t worry about that, I was the last one to finish in my group and they went ahead and started the next group but I didn’t care cause I wanted to pass the test how I wanted to do the test)

2. You have to jump into the pool feet first. No exceptions 

3. No you have to keep going, if you hold onto the end for too long when changing directions they will fail you

4. The only way you won’t pass is if you actively look like you are struggling and don’t know what the fuck you are doing lol




Thank you guys for the responses--I understand that swimming is an important skill and would like to learn, but I have a lot of issues with panicking in water even though I'm aware it's irrational. I also don't think I'd want to deal with the inconvenience of having the swim class in middle of the day, and it looks like the evening times are already full.

I'll do my best to learn as much as I can over the summer--I don't have access to the pool very often but I've gone a few times and plan to go as often as I can when I'm back from vacation.

Another option, is it possible to skip the test and take the swim class in the spring instead of the fall?




I saw a girl who kind of like rolled in, and they refused to pass her until she jumped in feet first. this is low effort stuff, I'm also pretty sure you can kick off the ends with no issues. It's been a quick minute, though, since I took it. everyone was kind of pathetic, though, iirc, so you should be fine. People at cornell are not peak athletes. I thought taking the class was a waste of time, and i still do tbh




1. No
2. Yeah you have to jump into the pool
3. Not sure if it changed but when I took it you could take a few seconds at each wall, but most people didn't stop at the wall for over 10 seconds 
4. Honestly if you're a beginner and are scared about the swim test, just sign up for Beginning Swim. If you sign up for it you can actually take the swim test any time you want during the class, and if you pass within a few weeks you can just drop the class. And if you end up staying dw because the swim test becomes a piece of cake after you learn some swimming techniques. I failed my first time because I'm ass at swimming, then I took this class and after like 2 weeks I passed the swim test with ease. So no worries.




1) No speed limit, it's just common sense, if you're stuck without moving then you're not gonna pass.

2) You gotta jump in, then tread in water and come back to the wall to begin your 3 laps, the jump can be soft.

3) You take a break after each lap, maybe like 30 sec break to catch your breath.

4) If you can learn to swim on your back slowly (more like floating) then you can pass, it doesn't take much energy and fairly easy. You can get a good push off the wall, I used a kick-push strat to get me like a fifth of the way through.




This is the reference smh:
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCSD/comments/cgyuy6/thirty_fucking_two_percent_i_give_up_from_this/




baby dance compilation funny video




What is Brown?




haha cool




I’m sure the 6/7 people who don’t make it in appreciate your sentiment. No idea if I’m being trolled or not lol




They're new this year/semester so no one would know, unfortunately.




For when your anus is ravaged by the combined penetrative power of MATH 1920, CS 2112, PHYS 1116, CHEM 2150, and quantum wines




Stay classy r/Cornell .




Noice




XD




I am planting a garden in front of my house. I left to work on a project and I came back a few hours later and there is a perfect [cylindrical pit](https://imgur.com/a/6YaWsOi) where my sunflower was. 

Who steals a sunflower??? Seriously. My bike was stolen a couple weeks ago, and now my sunflower? 

It was only a few dollars — it isn’t about the money. It’s about the energy that goes into giving something love and life. 

Please give me back my sunflower.




:( that's a dick move




I helped plant that sunflower and to see it stolen like this... Jesus christ it was like 3 bucks at Wegmans! Whoever did this needs to rethink their priorities, seriously. At least the root ball is intact so it might survive




This is so sad. So so sad.




I hope you get it back :'(




*The Zombies... are coming*

srsly though that really sucks and I'm sorry for your losses. May the sunflower BURN THEM! >:(




That’s pretty fucked dude, I hope you find it




Plant another sunflower with a tiny GPS chip or something under the leaf. If it gets stolen again, track it. Find out who stole it that way, and then shame them publicly.




What psycho twat steals a sunflower?




I’m very confused rn 😂




Any laptop works, preferably lightweight and 8+ hour battery life. I’d suggest a non-apple and installing Linux. I’ve had good experiences with the xps 13 and surface pro. 

Not sure what programs MSE might run, but I’ve had no issues with Mathematica, Matlab, basic computational programs. If it’s really high end computation you’ll need a computer lab regardless




Budget??




Engineers dont need a laptop different that any other student in any other college




I think the majority of people type into word / docs. I personally feel I retain nothing from doing that and hand-write my notes, but that’s just personal preference. People definitely do use iPads to take notes, but I would say that’s currently a minority just because it’s a fairly expensive set-up to attain. For those that do take iPads notes, I’ve heard it’s very handy. It’s really about how you learn best/what helps you retain the info




I would highly suggest to take your notes by hand, especially in STEM classes where all the equations make it difficult to take notes on a laptop. Studies have shown that taking notes by hand improves memory retention as well. If you have an iPad, great, but I wouldn’t go out and buy one if you don’t; I don’t think they’re that much better than your standard pen and paper




I use notability on iPad. I find it works well. It’s searchable (when it decides to recognize my handwriting), I don’t have to carry around and lose a bunch of paper, I can use colors/highlight easily, and the copy/paste function is nice too.




I think the usefulness of notes depends on the context. Sometimes for understanding the larger meaning for a subject I find its best to put the pencil down and just listen and think. But if it’s something detail oriented, **especially** mathematical derivation, everything on the board goes in the book.




i personally take my cs notes on OneNote, through the free Word office student account deal. everything else i do by hand. cs is just more comfortable to take digitally imo, just so i can screengrab diagrams. OneNote is really nice also because it has multiple text types, including a code type, which is great for differentiation between regular notes and chunks of code/examples!




I generally take notes in notebooks—I generally have one notebook per class. Especially in my STEM classes it’s just too hard to get those equations down on a laptop. And, it’s definitely been proven that handwriting notes helps you retain the information better, so there’s that.
That being said, I’ve had one or two classes where the professor talked so fast that I had to take notes on my laptop just to keep up.




When I'm feeling ambitious I take notes on laptop since I type faster and will lose less information then copy the important bits by hand later in my dorm for the sake of memory retention.




Notability iPad changed my note taking strategy was amazing




In MS paint using a laptop trackpad




Notion and Evernote are a couple more to look into:

https://www.notion.so/product

https://evernote.com/




I use written Cornell notes with doodles




I know I'm being a dick but I hated people who used their laptops to take notes, so distracting and I personally think it's worse than hand writing, but I don't make the rules. Another smart thing to do (if you can afford it) is to print out slides for the courses that upload it before lectures and write the notes on those lectures.




I have a notebook called the RocketBook! You write your notes by hand but can scan them to one (or more) of 7 pre-set locations (google drive, onedrive, dropbox, evernote, etc) and its a wet-erase notebook so you can keep reusing it. I make google drive folders for each class and can scan it from my phone using the app that comes with it. 10/10 would recommend - it was $30 on amazon.




There’s one in Ithaca commons if I recall correctly, others will know the name of the establishment




I've recommended ever person who ever asks this question to go to the Fine Line, near the commons. They take reservations now so the wait is no longer ridiculous. I've been to 5 different barbers in Cornell and 4 of them have FUCKED MY SHIT UP, not Fine Line though, great cuts go there.




H&M Barber shop in the Commons should work




There’s a place in the mall that sells black-centered hair products called AweNaturalz, I don’t think they do cuts in store though




There are a couple on Cayuga Street, one on Hancock, and one in Press Bay Alley, that I know of. I can't share any info from personal experience, but they seem plenty busy.




This is the 21st century, barbershops are no longer segregated by race. You're free to enter any barbershop you wish!




Just request an official transcript. It's free.




There's an option called "grades" on student center that is pretty much an unofficial transcript. It's under the "other academic" drop-down in the left side of the main student center view.




I think the course history thing is the closest you can get. I googled it just in case, and found this link: [https://registrar.cornell.edu/grades-transcripts/transcript-faq](https://registrar.cornell.edu/grades-transcripts/transcript-faq) where it says that Cornell doesn't provide unofficial transcripts (very bottom of the page). But if you're just looking to get your grades, etc. the course history thing seems accurate.




You might want to look into subletting or hopping onto an existing lease that someone else had . There are probably folks who didn't have enough people but signed for an apt anyway who would love to have u join for the fall to alleviate costs. Finding something for yourself this close to the fall sem will likely be hard and expensive. Try the housing fb group.




look in the facebook group “cornell university housing: sublets & roommates” there are lots of posts there from people who need someone to sublet for the fall!




I think Collegetown Terrace does
But idk if you would consider that relatively affordable




Sublets.




I’ve got extensive knowledge in powerlifting and olympic weightlifting id be willing to help you for no cost just DM me if you’re interested. (Not long term personal training just teaching you the stuff you need)




I think (?) you can get certified personal training through CFC and it's not terribly expensive.




Why did you quit the virtual training?




I am getting group fitness instructor certification in the fall, and I would be willing to help you just DM me.




Compilers




You ought to call or email Cornell SDS. They probably will have the most info and would likely be the people you go through if you were to bring an ESA to campus.




A student who sat next to me in a lecture class had a support dog with her. The dog was very well-behaved and may have even learned something about Indigenous Worldviews.




would try to avoid curtis of possible, his class if fine so take if u must but he’s a little wack




Yea Curtis is a pain in the ass to deal with but the class itself is fine, he is strict with not allowing people without prereqs in even though 1200 is a joke and nothing from 1200 will be needed for 2241, still give it a try and beg him to let you in, it worked with 1 student that took it same semester as me.




yeah, i was wondering about that too. wasn't enrolled because the class was full but then it disappeared on the scheduler. what a shame, because this might be the last semester they offer the class as a liberal studies elective for engineers.




You're more than likely going to be fine if the rest of your classes are As




Its a possibility, but you’ll probably be fine especially if you have a reasonable explanation for the grade.




I think they check for overall GPA? So you should be fine but I’m not completely sure.




It's not exactly the same, but I slacked off academically my senior high school spring and ended up with a C and two B's on a transcript that was almost all A's. I did get a warning letter from Cornell that said they were disappointed and that they would monitor my performance going forward. I just got good grades freshman fall and it's like it never happened, literally never mentioned again. Unless they tell you to worry about it, don't worry about it for now.




If your grades are bad enough for them, they would have contacted you by now. You're all good. Dwai.




yes




I won't be taking any of these courses for the rest of my time here but I love your handwriting style, you could make a font out of it.




Thanks brodie ur a hero 💛




Thanks for the sheets! Out of curiosity, how did you like CEE 3040? I signed up for 2700 for next semester but I'm not sure if it's worth it or not.




Permits won’t sell out, they make parking expensive enough that demand is pretty low. I’ve never had an issue finding a spot in the lot on west, and there’s always room in the A lot on north




I''m also an international grad student, and like you, I'm not eligible for an SSN for a while. In my case, I liked the phone I had before I moved, so I brought it with me. You can absolutely get a plan without an SSN. You may have to go to the store in person rather than doing everything online. But there are AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile stores in Ithaca, so that's not an issue.




Yeah some carriers offer plans without a SSN. it’s better to come here and get one on a contract or a month to month basis.




As the others said, you can go to one of the stores in person, and they'll get you set up immediately with a new phone (if you want, or bring your old phone) and a plan. The AT&T unlimited calls/texts with 1gb data is $30 (with autopay) for reference. You can go cheaper through a third party carrier too ([https://www.thesimpledollar.com/best-cheap-cell-phone-plans/](https://www.thesimpledollar.com/best-cheap-cell-phone-plans/)).




Look up Google FI




T Mobile offers an unlimited everything prepaid for $40 bucks a month which isn't too bad. Signal is pretty good around campus too except near Milstein. Definitely worth checking out.




So cornell store has ties to AT&T and has plans for internationals who have come in with no SSN. Plans tend to be kinda shite but just get an on-campus job and get your SSN then switch to something decent.




Try Free and For Sale on Fb




If you're willing to ship the Switch to WA, I'd buy it and the games off of you depending on the price + shipping. I'm sure it'd fit in a medium flat rate box?




how much for the switch?




Haha, didn't you sell me your switch two years ago? Got another one?




How much for tv?




how much for the 4k tv




How much for the switch?




get a bunch of vaccines




I regret not using it even once in 4 years, it officially expires at the end of this month.




Massages!!




Acupuncture, massages.




I remember as a kid having to wait to go to the doctor because there were only certain doctors in my parents’ insurance network, and they were booked up for that week or month. I remember having to travel to neighborhoods I’d never been to before to go to a specific doctor’s office because the ones in my neighborhood weren’t accepted by my parents’ insurance. When I needed a psychiatrist I had to pay out of pocket because she wasn’t in network.

Those things literally never happen with Aetna. Every doctor I’ve ever needed to see has accepted Aetna. Need to go to Cayuga hospital the day before finals at midnight because of a recurring, stupidly painful stomach bug? Covered. Want to go to an amazing dermatologist to see what’s up with your acne? Covered. Want to see a psychiatrist over the summer, 10 minutes from your apartment? Covered.

Every medical emergency or non emergency I’ve ever had since having Aetna has been a breeze to get through because every doctor or medical professional I’ve ever needed or wanted to see has accepted my insurance. I never have to wait to get something checked out, or commute to see a random doctor way out of the way. 

Obviously take this with a grain of salt bc im sure not everyone’s experience has been as positive as mine but holy shit is it freeing. Aetna for life, man. Aetna for life.




If you’re not coming in with healthcare and you’re not an international student apply for NY State Medicaid- you’re a student not making enough to pay your own bills so whoever you are, you’re eligible - just get an NY State ID to prove residence and you’ll save thousands of dollars :)




F




Rising junior in HBHS, need to take ns 3410 (anatomy) so I can't use that to fulfill this section of requirements. Thanks in advance!! :)




Where is that screenshot from?




Advising is mandatory I’m pretty sure. It’s when you meet with your advisor once a week and it’s a 1 credit S/U. The 9AM is just your assigned time slot, so I guess you were just not lucky. Lmk if you have more questions! I’m also an incoming first year.




Pretty sure thats a way for people who are advising to get credit. Its not a required class.




Call Cornell Health and ask, that is a way better source than any student here.




Link?




“Finally” the r/Cornell poster mumbles to himself in glee “Another one bites the dust”

He shoves his hands into his Flaming Hot Cheeto bag and whispers “One by one they fall” with a giggle and a crunch of his hard earned snack

“God speed Martha, kill them all”




F




What does being recognized by the university get you as a frat?




unsurprising from the geediest collegiate sub on reddit




Usually 3 credits and it's pretty easy to get an A. If you're a lead or it's your first year they might make it 4 credits or 1 credit respectively but other than that 3 is the norm.




Just conditioning you for this winter. 

Uris was usually a reasonable temp tho IIRC




Go anywhere on the Arts Quad and regret writing this post. McGraw Hall is particularly sweltering.




The section of the Olin Library with the Asian book collection is always warm. It's at the end of the hallway on the first floor.




Observatory greenhouse attached to Plant Science Building




Some of the classrooms in Hollister on the 2nd or 3rd floor I remember being not very comfortable to work in.




1920 should be easy to come by for free. Not sure about the other two *cough* google library *cough* genesis and hit on the Wikipedia and hit lib gen rus *cough*




Kleppner & Kolenkow doesn’t require access codes. I would recommend buying used versions of the intro physics sequence books if you prefer a physical copy since you probably won’t ever use them after you finish the course. 

1920 (at least when I took it) didn’t require any access codes, but its not a completely useless book. 

Idk about french, but Span 2090 required access codes for some bullshit online homework platform that was infuriating to use and buy. 

If you dont care about using physical textbooks, just torrent K&K and 1920’s book from gen lib rus




FREN 2090 requires an access code for homework




Stop buying stuff before classes even begin, you're wasting your money, but it's your money so you do you.




You'll definitely need the access code for 1920, homework problems are always out of the book




I took an art history class where she taught with another professor. She has a very loud and boisterous personality (in a good way), so it was easy to pay attention in lectures. I'm not familiar with the FWS, but she really knew a lot about medieval Spanish/Arabic history and her passion for it was clear the whole semester.
Edit: specifically Spanish medieval history




I hope you find what you’re looking for and that get what you want from your leave. Best of luck!




I adore Cary. He's so nice and really enthusiastic! One of my favorite faculty members.




Just do the assignments and participate. Guaranteed A- at least if you are competent




Aug 28 - assuming you’re a freshman and didn’t realize this was easily googleable

Also easily googleable




Some classes have their syllabus on [classes.cornell.edu](https://classes.cornell.edu) page -- it's a small portion of them though. If not, you can also just Google to find old ones as the other person said.




If your schedule is deeply messed up, contact your college Registrar. It's not a guarantee, but they may be able to help you sort it out before Add/Drop. Especially if you play the "I'm a Freshman and I didn't know better and I'm so excited about Cornell!" card.




The academic calendar is available online. Veterans Day is listed, but it doesn't say "no classes" so we should have class, yes.


 https://www.cornell.edu/academics/calendar/?year=2019-20




I believe there are. I recall going to class last year on veteran’s day and not being able to mail something at the bookstore as the post office there was closed for the day due to the holiday.




My understanding is you must still speak the language, regardless of the program. The only exception is if the language is not offered at cornell, Dutch is a good example.




I highly suggest waiting for one semester (until the spring) if you’re eager about starting early.

Everyone has to transition to college to some degree. Some more so than others. In the event that you are one of the people whose transition is a bit harder and requires more effort, you’re going to want some time freed up (be it for extra studying, stress relief, hanging out with friends). If you put too much on your plate and mess up your GPA it’s difficult to recover from. Profs also recognize that freshman need time to adjust and this may make getting a position slightly more challenging (to answer your questions)

Even starting research in your freshman spring is early (many students don’t start until sophomore year). Waiting just a little bit can do wonders for both your academic and mental wellbeing.




Please don’t load your schedule too much if you plan on doing research. I had an undergrad student under my supervision who took a position and never showed up for the entire semester. Needless to say, it looks bad and he’s made no progress at all. Expect to spend 1-2 full work days in total on research per week. Any less than that won’t cut it.




There is no rush, wait till spring or even summer. If you really like one of your professors, and they like you too, ask them if there is any work you can do with them the following semester. You're entering a world now where you can build a professional relationship with your mentors and that's where real opportunity arises. Take advantage of it, you've earned the privilege. And don't sweat it if it doesn't work out right away, dozens of opportunities will cross your path in the next four years. You can't just get it out of thin air though, you have to meet the right person (just like any meaningful relationship)




My advice would be to apply for a job working in a lab early. I did this and got a nice job in a lab, with my own opportunity to research in the lab starting this year. If you spend the first semester/year working in a lab, it gives you great familiarity with how the lab functions and some basic techniques, as well as background to potentially start your own research. Plus, if you work hard, the PI may be very welcome to you contributing on the research side early.




I have to agree with the other comments already posted. Finding a lab that suits your particular interest is more important than simply throwing yourself at the first opportunity that arises, and finding this match takes time and a small network. Your first month is going to be a bit chaotic, and the last thing most freshman need is another demand to juggle alongside classes and the standard social and lifestyle adjustment. You may not consider yourself to be like the “any other freshman” trope, but I would strongly suggest using your first semester to investigate potential opportunities.

I started research the spring of my freshman year after speaking to a junior in my major, hearing about his experiences, and asking him to relay my interest to the lab head to assist in setting up an interview. I was able to go through the interview and touring process toward the end of my first semester and establish plans to begin work in January. If you are enthusiastic about pursuing research, I would recommend using your first semester to establish some contacts and to reach out to labs with the intent of beginning in January.




It's a class that people all got over with in some way in the end




Kinda depends. Most people I know thought it was pretty tough, but not impossible. If you're like me and have trouble visualizing 3D, good luck lmao. Hit up office hours a lot, get a study group together, you'll survive.




When you survive the class and look back you'll realize it was just an average class. But it can be difficult as a first math class. Like another commenter said, go to office hours (I'd recommend finding a good TA you vibe with and love explanations from) and ask a lot of questions. Also, practice makes perfect! I've found that doing all the practice exams the professor posts before an actual exam is nice; they tend to reuse the same format of questions. 

IMO it was a very applications based class and they just ask you to "solve this" or "find that". I personally felt like the only conceptually challenging part of the course was, like another commenter stated, the 3D (graphing quadric surfaces).




Hell on earth




I personally thought it was fine but the general consensus seems to be that its tough. You’ll survive. Curve makes it hard to fail if you put in a legitimate effort.




Same as the other 99 times this question was asked.




Haven’t taken this course but Tom Hill is fantastic. He’s a professor of medieval literature and is also really into general fantasy and science fiction. Really chill guy, super nice, pretty funny, and usually his classes have really good discussions. He’s also pretty unstructured with deadlines and assignments (in his Sagas class he assigned us two essays due by the end of the semester and let us write on anything we read and submit them whenever we wanted to). Not sure if he’ll be more structured in an FWS but he’s generally a really good prof.




I’m in this FWS too! Where did you find the description?  There wasn’t anything on the roster last time I checked.




I took MEDVL 1103 with Tom Hill when I was a freshman (although at the time, it was mostly about fairy tales, with only some old english). Was great! 100% recommend the professor, super chill and nice guy, and even if the content is different this year I would at least give it a shot because the professor was so good.




That sounds like life tbh




Objective: Survive




Sounds like a dicky ripoff of agario, slitherio, diepio, and survivio




Idk if you're in engineering, but a lot of the project teams (although preprofessional, hard to get on to, and a lot of work) are really similar to what you described. I've spent a lot of time with the people on mine, we have occasional social events and parties, it's a really good time. Truly some of the smartest people I've ever met also. Pm if you want I'm happy to answer any other questions




Cornell has a club that organizes, if not participated in, science Olympiad. They were at club fest last year so I’d definitely recommend talking to them when you go! I didn’t end up going so if anyone has any more info they could share, that would be great




Project Teams seem like a really productive way for you to continue this commitment and passion, especially if you’re an engineering student. They’re also great for building up skills and experiences that can help you in your career later on. Look through some of the ones on campus. I can’t help but notice the similarities in subject matter between the SciOly Event “Water Quality” and the AguaClara Project Team for example, and I’m sure there’s a lot more for whatever events/interests you have!

I did Science Olympiad in high school as well, so it’s also cool that we’re at the school that hosts the National Competition, so I’m sure lots of planning goes into that as well, as others have mentioned.




Make sure you go to clubfest and have a good look around! Probably the easiest way to learn about more clubs




Project teams for sure, just be aware that they are classes too, so they come with plenty of work and stress. In a completely non-academic direction, I am in a club sport that has that. We travel weekly in season (at extremely low cost to you), you get off campus during the winter (bad if you want to rush, good if you are basically anyone else), and we spend way too much time together between practice, social events, training trip, and competition. We teach complete newbies too.




[deleted]




i haven’t, but an option this fall (if you haven’t taken it) is DEA 1500. It’s probably the easiest class I’ve taken at cornell and one of the most interesting! prof. evans + the TA’s are great. def an easy A class




I trained my brain to watch youtube at 2X speed.




Everyone has ironic replies but I have a legitimate one. I took a 5 lb shit. I weighed myself before and after




Ate my weight in goldfish crackers




I learned to how to keep my eyes closed for 12 hour periods




I was expecting an actual boast because this is Cornell, but then remembered this is also reddit




copious amnt of oxygen wasn't the only thing that was going into my lungs this summer




I have learned to survive on 4 hours of sleep and also 14.




I got out of bed




Have fun without feeling guilty




I made one (1) friend




Too old for summer break, but I bought a Kamado (ceramic egg grill) and learned how to make truly amazing Neapolitan pizza at home. 

Strong recommend “Mastering Pizza” by Marc Vetri if you want to get really nuts about making pizza.




I (sometimes) held myself back from dumb impulse purchases.




Climbed the second tallest mountain in the country, and almost got struck by lightning from a weird micro storm that happened at the summit. This is what happens when you try to be athletic. Lesson learned.




Maintained my mental health! Ready for the grind in a few weeks




I enjoyed reading books!




Got Lasik done :)




[deleted]




Almost hit 1600 Elo in Brawlhalla




Brewed mead for the first time




i feel like i just graduated and started my job wtf and u guys already start classes soon??? damnn




I had sex with some of the Canadian geese that roam around Helen Newmann Hall.




I’m working at an internship that’s miserable, but at least I have some kind of income. On the other hand, I’ve lost 10 pounds so far and am still working on that. I’ve also been able to fence over the summer, which I don’t have time for during the semester, so that’s been nice. Really though, I’m just looking forward to getting back to school and away from home again.




made 40,000 dollars at my dual facebook-google Elite Internship program

Sergrey Brin himself said I was the Future of computers




Trained myself to eat the same food for 3 straight days. Puked the first time but eventually got there.




I read almost all the textbooks listed for my required courses for fall. I also learned 1000 GRE words.




Banged a bitch




Feeling dizzy




Cornell Wifi




You really only get caught if you seed (ie upload) torrented files.




Also, don't watch porn on Cornell wifi, they hand over your browsing activity to your future employer as background check. Stay safe fellow Cornellians.




Follow up question: What are some good programs to torrent before I get here? (CS)




You only get in trouble if you torrent on Cornell internet without a VPN.




Though usually not as true for the English department ones, most FWSes are taught by PhD students. Thus, it is rare that a FWS is run twice, and makes it very difficult to compare difficulty across them.




I took both of mine in the English department, and they were both great. One was taught by a professor and the other by a PhD student. I would say that both had a moderate to heavy workload, but remember it’s full 3 credit class. If you keep in open mind, it will make your FWS a lot more enjoyable.




So, Engineering Advising just sent an email today with this link about CASE exam information: [https://files.constantcontact.com/46aa088a201/e7af0899-9edf-4126-a3ec-2d2d9bc0691e.pdf](https://files.constantcontact.com/46aa088a201/e7af0899-9edf-4126-a3ec-2d2d9bc0691e.pdf)

I think CHEM 2090 is for engineers, and the CASE exam listed is 2090, not 2070. I'm not really sure why the syllabus covers acids/bases, since the information that you have saying it covers Ch. 1-18 + 26 lines up with what I've also heard. However, if you're going to study everything, I think you might as well also take the CHEM 2080 test since I heard it's basically just the other half of the textbook that 2090 doesn't cover.




The spring 2018 syllabus on class roster (https://classes.cornell.edu/browse/roster/SP18/class/CHEM/2090) seems to be different than the one you attached, anyone know which is more accurate to the class/CASE? (I'm on mobile so the quality is awful, but here's a screenshot of the syllabus from that link https://m.imgur.com/a/wZrWjpi)




Gen lib rus




Homework is assigned from the textbook I'm pretty sure, there are definitely PDFs that float around once the year starts, but pm me the book version and I'll see if I can find something




Lots of folks have the PDF. Easily found via Google but send a message if u need it.




PDF online.




Wanna buy my textbook?




The whole plant science building is prehistoric, it's a shame they haven't renovated the bathrooms yet.




My favorite is the saloon-style doors to get into each stall. An iconic building xD




I would recommend math 1110 simply because it’s a straightforward calculus class, and basic knowledge calculus is a necessity for the majority of STEM majors. From what I’ve heard (tbh I haven’t taken either class), 1106 is a semi-incoherent mash-up of various math topics




Math 1106 was designed for premeds to take. So I would take it, get your A, and bounce. Trust me you want as many A’s as you can get




1106 is a literal shitshow. I would recommend it if you’ve already taken Calculus and are therefore aware of stuff like limits and theories behind calculus, because it’s necessary for understanding but barely touched in 1106. Also the prof (Allen Back) is a total asshole. He insults students for asking questions and is generally a bad lecturer. Look at his Rate My Professor if you want more info.

Class attendance is mandatory, but the class is completely useless. The TAs for the sections can be good, but they’re often actual math majors and may not know the random topics Back throws at you for no reason (like the business math unit). 

That said, if you’re already strong with theory and are terrified of actual math and doing proofs, it’ll be better than 1110. I had to drop 1110 because before the first prelim I didn’t memorize the proofs and couldn’t derive them myself because I have the quantitative skills of a wet paper bag, so I ended up with a D-. 

My 1110 professor (Tim Riley) was amazing though. He made the material very understandable, taught me a lot of useful stuff I still remember today, and had an adorable British accent (which tbh helped me drag my ass to class at 10AM every day). The class sizes are small too, so you get a lot of personal attention from your professor. This differs from 1106 which is a large lecture with smaller discussion sections. But I just couldn’t handle the work due to absolutely sucking at math.

TL;DR: 1110 is a better class objectively, 1106 is better if you are legitimately very bad at math, need to not die, and already took basic calc in high school.




If I had to say one, it would be OB, but I wouldn’t worry too much. I pretty much split my time amongst all of my classes and did fine in the required ones.




ILR is not too difficult, especially the first year. Just do the work and you'll be fine.




None




Lmao is this a shit post?




so edgy




then why are you not micro-offended?




Can’t tell if shitpost




Honestly good post dude I laughed




Get thicker skin




I have T-mobile and it gets great coverage at Cornell and in Ithaca. That being said the WiFi coverage on campus is also great and majority of the time you’re on WiFi, not data.




Verizon has pretty excellent coverage in Ithaca and surroundings. No complaints so far




Verizon > ATT > Sprint/Tmobile




Google Fi is another decent consideration.




Lived in Rose Main last year and the half the time my calls dropped bc no connection




In terms of data signal, realize that different devices may receive different bands. Newer devices can receive more frequencies, especially inside buildings, so it's possible that two T-Mobile customers standing in the same spot can have different experiences. (TLDR: Signal strength can be dependent on device as well as carrier, so just because someone else says they get a great signal somewhere doesn't mean you will)

Second, know that T-Mobile supports WiFi calling, and wifi is available on campus. Be sure to turn on wifi calling (in iOS, Settings > Cellular > Wi-Fi Calling > On). Make sure to connect your device to the Cornell wifi network.

What I'd recommend is try using your current plan for at least a few weeks. If you have problems, ask around and see what service others use. Especially people who have the same device as you. No point switching now if you are otherwise happy with T-Mobile and don't know if you'll have problems.

My family has T-Mobile, my kid lived in High Rise Five first year. AFAIK they had no problems. I can't say I've tested the data signal comprehensively in Ithaca, but I can tell you I texted and posted photos to Instagram at Taughannock Falls from an iPhone 6, which surprised me a bit!




Out of curiosity, why do you need a headboard




I checked the dorm bed I’m currently in (which is the same kind as all others) and didn’t see any holes or anything for a headboard.

I’ve never seen nor heard of anyone attaching a headboard to their bed, at least not in the past year I’ve been here




Easy head board: push your bed against a wall.




My mom and dad divorced when I was a baby and my dad was still in China so I had practically no documentation cause no police reports and I never went to therapy but they accepted a letter from my school counselor saying she’d never met him or known him to be involved w school and a letter from my dentist saying essentially the same




I had no documentation as well. My school counselor wrote a letter explaining my situation and thankfully they accepted that. It does suck that they make us do this though. I remember being insanely embarrassed (because it was a delicate situation) when asking.




Do you have a legitimate reason to do this?

If you actually have no contact with said parent, there are a number of ways to back this up. Failure to pay child support, lack of contact/visitation, etc, etc. 

I provided court documentation that showed my ncp was not involved in my life.




Hi! I had the same issue. I got my waiver approved last Tuesday, and I called yesterday to ask what was up since it hadn't been updated on the bill yet. The lady on the phone said that I should wait until tomorrow (Friday) afternoon to call them again if it isn't updated by then. Apparently the department is behind on this -\_-;

 I'm fairly certain they'll refund you if you go ahead and pay the bursar (at least, that's what I assumed from the info from this website): [https://studenthealthbenefits.cornell.edu/health-plans/shp/waive-your-enrollment](https://studenthealthbenefits.cornell.edu/health-plans/shp/waive-your-enrollment) but you can also pay the amount w/o the insurance cost (though keep in mind you're still going to be charged a $219 SHP fee)

Also, if it helps, the number I called was the one on the bursar, which then redirected me to the student health benefits department ((607) 255-2336) I'm not sure if you called this one, but I was able to get a rep the two times I called and fairly quickly too.




They do end up crediting the amount in the next billing cycle so there's nothing to worry about! This means they deduct the amount that they overcharged you by from the next bill :)




I contacted the bursar and they said you should pay the new amount with the insurance subtracted and the health fee added in, even though their system hasn't updated yet.




cornell




I think that you and anyone else who posts on the sub with the statement "Will I die if I take X" have the wrong mentality.

&#x200B;

Sure you might be able to get through the classes without failing a single one, the point is either you will most likely get poorer grades as a result and hurt your gpa; OR suppose you allocate enough time to each class it will be detrimental to other aspects of your college semester like extra-curriculars or research.

&#x200B;

I get that you probably need it for some requirement and you probably have genuine interest in all of the classes you mentioned, but at the same time, weight that against the fact of whether or not you can take it another semester and graduate in the same time as well as your grade goals. Posting stuff like this just for someone to say "I took it 2 years ago it was doable" doesn't help you gauge how much work it will be for you. 3410 is super hard, depending on if you have discrete experience, 2800 could be very hard too.




Definitely possible, but if you need it as a pre-req for something I wouldn’t bank on the Professor changing.




the pre-med bio classes will always be difficult regardless of the professor. in addition, getting the intro bio classes out of the way as early as possible is a great idea, especially if you're a bio major!




I rarely understood the lectures, whether it was Kelly or Tony teaching it. But that’s not necessarily because they were bad lecturers, it was because of the sheer amount of information and speed they were lecturing at. Just make sure to spend time to study after each lecture, because the slides and summary notes are pretty good & sufficient to do well on tests. 

I had not taken a biology course since HS freshmen bio (didn’t take AP) and I didn’t feel disadvantaged or behind, so imo everyone is capable of doing well.




Tony will be teaching it as usual. I think he’s a fairly good professor, and his tests are always straightforward, with pretty much everything coming from his lectures. He’s teaching with Kelly Liu, who taught the development part of the course for the first time last semester. She’s ok, is what I’ve heard, but her lectures get confusing. As far as I know, these professors won’t be changing anytime soon.




It changes each semester who teaches, but it is definitely still a hard class regardless of what semester you take




The ones teaching this fall are Garcia-Garcia, M  
Huffaker, T.  Both have poor ratings on rate my professor (which i know doesnt always tell the whole story).  I am wondering if they are usually the Professors or if I should wait for better ones.  I am premed so also taking CHem 2070.  Like everyone, I am hoping not to have an awful first semester.




I had Huffaker for 1350 and I thought he was a great lecturer and extremely helpful in office hours. Tests seemed fair, too. Not sure why he has such bad reviews. I’m really glad I took 1350 with him, I learned so much.




Out of curiosity, what did you do to get this notice?




It’s 2019..how are you not using 2 VPNs and Tor Browser?




Idk what the penalties are these days but back in the 00s the MPAA/RIAA would hand out 6 (sometimes 7) figure lawsuits like candy. 

Never, EVER torrent on a college network. Your traffic is being constantly monitored because your demographic is the most likely to torrent, and Ivy League parents tend to have deep pockets, so don’t be surprised if you keep it up that you end up being sued for more than the price of your Cornell tuition. 

I cannot emphasize this enough. Never torrent, never **ever** torrent on a college network. I have seen way, **WAY** too many kids ruin their futures and their families’ finances this way. It’s just not worth it. And yes, it can and will happen to you.

Source: Hearing about the latest 6 figure lawsuits against Cornell students violating DMCA was a typical dinner table conversation for most of my childhood. Please take my word for this. Stop torrenting, now.




[deleted]




I torrented on my high schools wifi and got suspended for a day but that was it. I think it does matter though if you were/werent seeding the file to others




Also if you wanna download college textbooks/reference books, use libgen instead of torrent. 

Google that and go to the first link.




Nothing will happen




[deleted]




From what I heard, the class is very mathy, and I think you might struggle - but i'll let others who've taken it chip in.

There's also stsci 4740 which is a great, similar class but less mathy (which I plan to take!)




You could always just take the class pass/fail right? Are you trying to take it exclusively for credit?




realistically you'll be fine as a lot of the projects you could kinda just copy the math from the notes and debug in OH as you caught up with the linear / prob. But it might be confusing no reason no to try, maybe find another cs class as backup for if you drop




Lets board this meme train my glip glops




Isn’t it great? Hotelies have less work than everyone else, more fun, and typically make more money.




its so fun making approximately similar salaries with extremely low marginal effort




Yeah if you count the freshmen




Dude, you have no idea. Can't walk 3 feet without tripping on one of those dirty rats. I've been narced on there more times than I can count (and I have quite a few fingers) - everytime you sneeze or drop a little packet of powder it's like the cops are waiting for you... 

if I were you I'd move all my illegal activities to Plant Sciences.

Edit: or okenshields. Happy Dave knows that snitches end up in ditches.




can personally confirm rat residence as of november 2018




Not even sure how this happens, but you should be able to just move one of your classes around during add drop right before the semester starts. I don't know if your advisor could do anything immediately.




This shouldn’t be possible. Is this your finalized schedule?




They don't check your schedule when assigning you a FWS (they're assuming you worked out the conflicts). You can't do anything right now, but once add/drop starts, you can switch your FWS or your discussion section.




Not really any kind of promo code out there I think, but if you wait until school to buy stuff there are frequent sales.  Better yet, make friends with someone who works there and ask them to buy you stuff with their discount.

Source: I work at the Cornell Store.




there's usually some kind of start of school sale for the first couple weeks of school so i'd wait until then (i think its like 20-25%? unsure - dont quote me on that)




 [https://registrar.cornell.edu/exams/fall-prelim-exam-schedule](https://registrar.cornell.edu/exams/fall-prelim-exam-schedule)  and Ctrl + F :)




Dead easy, I had Wissink and never had to go to lecture. I believe the textbook was online(?) and assignments were as well. Just keep up with the material and it shouldn't be too bad, especially if you've taken AP macro/micro in HS.




Unless you’re bringing a car, your options are going to be pretty limited. I rode competitively all through high school and couldn’t find anything that was at a high enough level to be worth the time, money or energy.

Have you considered trying out for the polo team? We have a first year team that you would be perfect for! Doesn’t matter if you’ve never picked up a mallet in your life, all you need is to have a solid riding background (which it sounds like you have) and the coaches will teach you the rest. Being a part of the team has without a doubt been the highlight of Cornell for me, I can not recommend it enough. If you’re at all interested, I’d be happy to answer any more questions you might have!




Marching band doesn’t actually take up that much time. You get what you put into it, and people still love you even if you show up like twice a month




There’s Cornell dressage team and western team. I’m in dressage and we regularly have people drive to both If only farm and J&B stables.




This is certainly a post




Uwu uwuwu




'Typically vanilla' 

I'm scared




[deleted]




Mild take: CTB bagels are the definition of mediocrity and are overpriced




I don't get the hype, maybe cuz I'm from the city and used to good bagel sandwiches.

I miss going to Wegmans more.




You'll probably end up paying for the online MindTap thing that comes with the textbook and hw stuff. I took Econ 1110 with a different prof, but I'd definitely wait until classes start before purchasing anything.




On line mind Tap access will be required. Don’t buy textbooks in advance. You might make changes to your schedule




Reminder that AEP hired someone who was involved in the UNC academic fraud scandal to be an academic programs coordinator. Maybe this explains why so many football players major in AEP?

> Ms. Reynolds, a former associate director of the Academic Support Program for Student-Athletes and head football counselor, left Chapel Hill in 2010. She steered athletes toward the phony classes. In a 2009 email, she expressed concern that Ms. Crowder’s retirement could hamper player eligibility. Ms. Reynolds is now an academic programs administrator at Cornell University’s School of Applied & Engineering Physics.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/unc-scandal

https://www.dukebasketballreport.com/2014/10/24/7056409/reactions-to-the-north-carolina-academic-fraud-scandal

https://www.ithacajournal.com/story/news/local/2014/10/23/cornell-employee-unc-scandal/17785791/

https://ithacavoice.com/2014/10/cornell-staffer-implicated-unc-athletics-scandal-prior-job/




“AEP ‘19” 🤔




Haven't taken either professor, but FWS is exactly the same as any other course from this point onwards (course grab, add/drop.) If it's full, just email the professor and see if you can get into it. People switch FWS frequently, I added mine day of and like 8 people dropped after the first class




1. App Dev Courses: [https://www.cornellappdev.com/courses](https://www.cornellappdev.com/courses) (I believe the actual course numbers are in the 1000's, and might not be listed on the roster - generally you enroll in them after the semester starts)
2. The team is separate from the classes.
3. no, but I feel like a lot of people apply for the team after they finish the class though
4. actual transcript grades are pass/fail, you pass if you get a high enough grade on your assignments but I'm not familiar with the specific grading scheme that AppDev uses




Try cs 5150.  Some projects are app developments.




Getting a pass in the front-end app dev course is hard. The workload is larger than CS 1110 from my perspective. At least I spend more than 10 hours a week to understand what is going on and to finish each project. You have to complete most of the weekly projects (You can drop 1 or 2 lowest scores I suppose) and a Hack Challenge, which is pretty fun and competitive. The hack challenge is also mandatory to get a pass.




I’m in ILR I took the class with Newton he was pretty chill and he doesn’t give reading quizzes like other labor history professors if you show up and pay attention no reason you can’t get at least a B+ even if you never read




First off you’re lying saying low rise 6 is nice lmao




As someone that lived in LR6 freshman year, do yourself a favor and don’t try to switch out. It was the best possible situation—the bathrooms were renovated about four years ago, so are really nice. The rooms (assuming you’re not in a triple) are actually fairly large. It’s quiet but also fairly social; my group of friends all came together because we lived in Low Rise.

When I got my housing assignment before freshman year, my roommate and I did everything we could to switch out of LR6 but to no avail. By the end of the year I couldn’t have been more upset to leave!




Yes




https://living.cornell.edu/living/dine/mealplans/upload/Dining-Terms-and-Conditions-2019-2020.pdf




You can change and cancel like 2 weeks into the semester.




Email dining@cornell.edu guys I called and figured it out




Teagle: 11-3. Maybe wait in line for a bench once a month (3 days a week). Almost never for a squat rack.




Teagle from 830-1030AM seems about perfect. I never have to wait. Idk if it’s different when the semester starts up though. I don’t go to Noyes.




let's not be violent now.....can u pls not hit gyms. u never know how it could hurt them.




Noyes is okay until about 3:30/4:30ish, and then it turns into a madhouse practically until close.

Teagle is consistently busy, however reaches peak annoyingly-packed levels after classes. Ends up being fine again later on.




5750 is definitely not as much work as 4750 there's two labs and an open ended project lots of paper reading and two (?) tests that were kinda weird my friends printed off all the papers for the class brought them to the test and tried to pick out what they needed during the test. You can use whatever hdl so pymetal is fine.




I had a friend take True Stories... they said it was the easiest since they just wrote about themself. But idk who was teaching it.




I had her for a Romance FWS, she is an excellent and really friendly teacher! She’s a PhD student doing a thesis on Tolkien and I had a really nice time in her class. There wasn’t a very excessive amount of reading, as she tries planning it so the long reading is over the weekend. It was (and I’m pretty sure True Stories is too) an English FWS though, so there’s 5 essays and a bit stricter requirements on length and content, but I never got below a B on an essay.




I took true stories it was great




I got an A in the course different TA but still it was such a good class




Not sure about your prof specifically, but I liked the structured approach ENGL FWS' had and they were less subjective with the grading (more analytical writing). Also took True Stories and it was really interesting.




Depends on 

1) whether you get accepted into the major, I hear it's competitive 
2) what you want to do with the major in terms of career 
3) how interested you are in business/econ material

I would say generally that double majoring is not worth it because a lot of the major requirements can be very easy and seemingly pointless, lots of clubs and top level jobs (say banking or consulting) dont necessarily require a business degree anymore, and i think a lot of the higher level classes are open to non majors (tho im not 100% sure about that last one) 

I am currently double majoring in aem and IS (started out in aem, added IS later) and is u do decide to double major here are some things you can do to cut down on the load

*CALS is very generous with AP credit so look up which classes you can skip
*the Business Analytics concentration overlaps with IS somewhat so is possible to count a single class towards 2 majors
*not a suggestion really but AEM itself is fairly easy and having it as a double major wont kill you, esp if you decide early that thats the path you want to go down




Try to get into it first.




The major would provide absolutely 0 tangible benefits over the minor, besides possibly networking with classmates or something. Don’t.




Hi! I'm taking the same exam-- here's a link to the textbook that I found online: [https://kupdf.net/download/mcquarrie-general-chemistry-4th-edition-pdf\_58fc9ef1dc0d607038959f0a\_pdf](https://kupdf.net/download/mcquarrie-general-chemistry-4th-edition-pdf_58fc9ef1dc0d607038959f0a_pdf)

I'm pretty sure it's the correct edition, etc. I've also heard that the 2090 test is the first half of the textbook (Ch.1-17ish + Ch. 26). The rest of the textbook is covered in CHEM 2080. Each chapter has 10ish subsections and is followed by about 70-100 practice problems.

I also found a different reddit post about this exam in this group that recommended this website for a good overview of what the class covers/what to focus on, as well as summaries of each unit:

[https://sites.google.com/a/cornell.edu/chem-2090/home](https://sites.google.com/a/cornell.edu/chem-2090/home)

Personally, I'm currently looking through both resources, and I'm planning on doing some practice AP exams from Barron's and watching some Khan Academy videos just to keep the material under my belt until the test date comes around (though I'm told that the material semi-intersects with AP, semi-doesn't).

Hope this helps, and good luck to you! PM me if you want to discuss material XP I'd also search through this subreddit, since a lot of people have asked questions or given advice about this specific test before.




It's quite different from the AP test (not sure about IB) in that it's mostly conceptual and they cover a few different topics. I'd just study and do problems out of the textbook




The exam format is different from the AP/IB exams, and the topics don't line up exactly. 2090 doesn't cover quite a few things that are covered in the AP, but it goes into a lot more detail and covers a topic that's barely mentioned in the textbook and isn't touched on by AP (don't remember what its called, something about crystals).

I would look up the syllabus and read the relevant parts of the textbook, but if you want practice problems you can do the AP practice problems from the topics overlap with the syllabus - focus on the free response ones but you can also do MC as if it were free-response by covering up the answer choices.




Took it a while back. Zachary Price is literally the best teacher I've ever had. Seriously. He's extremely nice and always available to help if you have an issue with a paper. I've never been a strong writer and this class helped me so much that in my other writing class I got an A when in any other point in time in my life I would have gotten a B. Seriously I could not recommend him enough. Like 99% of the time I hate my teachers but this guy is seriously amazing.




It's hard to compare FWS since they change so much across TAs. When I took this a couple years ago it was rather difficult as basically 6/7 essays seemed to be stacked in the latter half of the course. FWS grades are really pulled out of a hat though as I thought I did very poorly but got an A.   Overall, just like every FWS it's a crapshoot as to how hard it'll be. I thought the class was interesting overall though.




It's a LOT of work because your final is making a conlang. If you love it it's great and honestly I'm very happy I took it. It's like half of intro ling squished with a Writing course so there's quite a lot to do and some people got very stressed due to other essay based classes. 

I doubt it will be offerred second semester. FWSS are fickle like that. Would highly recommend if you are interested in conlanging




/u/EmeraldRange weigh in




You can switch classes/discussion sections on Student Center during add drop to fix the issue, no talking to people required.




This happened to me and I just alternated what class to go to




Move the CS discussion to a free time, even if you can't make it to that discussion. Prioritize lectures over discussions as you make ask profs/TAs to go to a diff discussion section than the one you signed up for.

Also, how did student center allow you to enroll into conflicting schedule?




I did CS4820 + CS3110 + CS4410 and it was not fun , but i survived. If you've done well in past CS classes, and are willing to give up some sleep it should be doable




Is there any real reason to do this? Are you trying to graduate early? Go abroad?

This is a lot of work, especially for the start of sophomore year. There's a lot of ECE and CS overlap and so the double major isn't super credit intensive. It can be done fairly comfortably (credit wise) over 4 years without needing semesters like this.


If you have a good reason to do so then give it a go, but I think taking on this much work will degrade your performance in each class and leave you with little time for things you enjoy.




Individually they're not horrible but together might be a lot. Albonesi's 2300 is graded on a nicer curve compared to other iterations of the class but the workload isn't less. Fall algo is less work than spring algo, but it's still conceptually pretty challenging and you will need time to think and digest the class material if you want to know it well. Networks might seem trivial but 4 hours extra work per week is pretty bad if you already have a lot on your plate.  


I wouldn't recommend taking all 5 of those at the same time - you might make it through but I think you'd be sacrificing some understanding and grades in each class because of the workload. You can give it a shot, but don't be afraid to drop 1-2 of those classes if you think you're being overwhelmed - especially something like Networks - it's supposed to be a GPA boost so if you don't think you're gonna get an A/A+ then you might as well drop and retake it some other semester when you have more time.




High intelligence; low wisdom




but like why?




This is fairly doable.




I think they’re a super quick turnaround, like the night after you take it. You’ll be fine




Yeah, I got the results like the same day I think; I was one of only two people taking it second semester (more people might take it in the first semester tho). It'll definitely get to you before add/drop ends




I took the exam in the afternoon and got my result that evening in 2017.




Depends who your professor is. I took Ryan Lawrence’s version of this FWS and it was great. He’s a super nice guy and it really wasn’t too difficult. Not sure about the other professors though




God I hated my MEDVL FWS, ended up dropping it since I didn't have enough material to BS about. If you like standard analytical writing like in AP Lang/Lit you probably won't enjoy this.




what type of room is it? double? single?




DM'ed you




I got a scholarship from NY State, too.  I hear it takes forever and some don't even get it before the semester starts.  Gotta call them again and see wassup. Bureaucracy, am I right?




It takes a while for it to add on to your bill. One thing though- for the enhanced tution award there is a condition where you have to stay in NYS for a year (or however long your loan was given for) after you graduate.




Good luck! ❤️




Best bet would be to check building and cupd lost and founds...




ids usually end up in the place where you would go to get them replaced (some office in day hall)...
I once went to get mine replaced and the dude had my card right on his desk (It’s the default to where it gets sent) 

it’s worth a shot 🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️




Side note: International students are a big market for US higher ed. Wealthy international students in particular are specifically recruited because they pay full freight. The tuition bills of international students are a huge income source for American colleges, and may subsidize the tuitions of lower-income US students.

This is a point that Conservatives, when they call to to restrict foreign visitors from certain countries, don't seem to realize.




I mean I don’t wear or walk around in anything gaudy, typically H&M/Uniqlo, but both my parents are doctors which would put me in the top .5% of income. I’m not sure what the point of this post is though, the vast majority of kids who are “well off” are probably from well educated families with parents who are lawyers, doctors, engineers, or in finance. It’s pretty much the exact same reason those career paths are so common at Cornell as well since it’s pretty attainable at an elite college like Cornell. Are there people who come frim hundred million dollar trust funds walking around campus? I’m sure but I’m also fairly sure they wouldn’t be walking around flaunting that wealth off either (other than that dumb lambo kid). The things you mentioned people wearing can honestly be bought by a decent portion of campus comfortably, but the bigger indicator of someone wearing that is their personality. 

Overall, there’s no mythical profession where wealthy kids come down from. Yes there are people who are well off, I recognize and am thankful that my parents have given me the opportunities, but know that there is a difference between having wealth and flaunting wealth.




Doctors, business(wo)men, etc. The occasional son/daughter of a PRC hotshot. 

There is a selection bias. Poor international students don't really come to Cornell (as we give an unfortunately little amount of aid to internationals + aren't need blind towards their app), so you're left with people willing to shell out $70k+/yr to send their child overseas. People with that kind of money also tend to spoil their children with material shit.




My family does real estate in Asia and so I've been fortunate enough to attend a boarding school and now Cornell. However, you'd probably never guess that I came from wealth because I personally don't like attracting attention.

Unrelated, but I do know the groups of people on campus that do have the material things you say, and they're (for the most part) really nice people!




I’m probably not the person you had in mind since I dress like a homeless person but I’ll try to share some insight. 

I grew up lower-middle class until I moved to Korea where my dad got a huge offer to work for a big tech firm as an executive. Went to a private international school that had a pretty similar environment (wealth-wise) as Cornell with these designer handbags and shit. 

Now my dad works in Venture and is blowing what he used to do out of the water. For the sake of context, and not to brag, my parents recently bought a place in manhattan that we would have never dreamed of when I was a kid. 

The thing is, in my experience, a recognizably ‘rich’ brand usually indicates ‘stereotypically rich’ parents. Like a doctor or lawyer. But if you see something, and know its high quality, but you have never heard of the brand before, chances are their grandparents are like owners of a baseball team or name partners at a manhattan law firm. Thats why West Coast flexing is so conspicuous compared to East Coast flexing. Also, in my experience, these uber rich kids grow up learning the value of money. For cash to stick around for more than 2 generations, this kind of behavior has to be tied to the money. 

The kids who leave their Canada Gooses at parties aren’t the ones who grew up with railroad money or something. I hate Crazy Rich Asians, but this is kinda the one thing it gets right. 

The super fucking rich kids are the ones you don’t notice, and the ones that you do notice have parents that are probably doing something less insane than you might expect, like medicine or real estate in New Jersey instead of Wall Street and Railroad money.

**EDIT**: Here's a vignette into my unhealthy obsession with fountain pens, and an analogy in case my morning brain fucked up explaining this idea. If anything its just a vaguely cringey/embarrassing essay about fountain pens. 

You probably know what a [Mont Blanc pen looks like](https://cdnlive.williampenn.net/pub/media/catalog/product/cache/image/700x560/e9c3970ab036de70892d86c6d221abfe/w/p/wp18114-a.jpg). You equate that brand with luxury and if you see someone with a pen with that white peak poking out of their breast pocket, you say to yourself, "Hey that dude is rich." 

The thing is, although a MB pen is extremely expensive and writes like a dream, there are pens out there that are even more expensive. You know Pilot, the company that makes those [G2 gel pens](https://static2.jetpens.com/images/a/000/026/26088.jpg?ba=middle%2Ccenter&balph=3&blend64=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZXRwZW5zLmNvbS9pbWFnZXMvYXNzZXRzL3dhdGVybWFyazIucG5n&bm=difference&bs=inherit&mark64=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZXRwZW5zLmNvbS9pbWFnZXMvYXNzZXRzL3dhdGVybWFyazEucG5n&markalign=top%2Cright&markalpha=30&markscale=16&q=90&w=600&s=5420edb954dbf7d1bf7c07d71bde4499) you go through like wildfire during finals? They also have a luxury brand called Namiki, that handcrafts these gorgeous [maki-e pens](https://cdn11.bigcommerce.com/s-of7asuzbtu/images/stencil/1024x1024/products/8914/41839/Namiki-Emperor-TwoDragons-FP_Capped__02578.1524509753.jpg?c=2) and adorns them with art in a style that's been passed down generation to generation since the 7th century. These can cost up to 5 times as much as a MB 149 and a 'real' collector is going to be more impressed by one of these, but while people who aren't mentally ill and aren't sexually aroused by pens (like yourself) won't be able to associate it with a 'luxury' brand but will be able to instantly recognize its quality.




My experience with the wealthy Cornellians is kinda distasteful.  They’re very clique ish and showy.  I was friends with some rich kids during orientation but they all ditched me once they found out I had a hard time paying tuition.  I know that’s not the way all of them are, but fuck you




Kids who show off tend to be new money.  Old money people fly under the radar. Just a thought...




yes I too chose to be born into my socioeconomic class, that is how I became wealthy.




[deleted]




We have a discord! Put your friend code in there and you’ll get a ton of new friends

https://discord.gg/5Z66JW




Omg, yes! I've been trying to see if people play there. Mine is 0596 7411 8233




What ever happened to just picking up heavy rocks outside




>Does anyone know if you can rent out a locker for Teagle?

Yes. I'm not sure of the size, though. Would definitely be enough for your gym stuff, soap/shampoo, shoes, etc. If it's one of the smaller ones it'll be tight but still doable. 

______

I'd just go to teagle/noyes/whatever. Stash some deodorant, shower stuff, etc. in the locker and then bring a new change of clothes every 2-3 days. If you're keen about smelling perfect all of the time just leave a pair of gym shoes in the locker and bring a shirt/shorts (as these take up like no space) every day. 

400 dollars extra is a lot of money.




You don't need to rent a locker for teagle. Just use a locker for the week and at the end of the week, take off the lock, and pick a new locker. 

Source, did this at teagle for 6 years and never lost my stuff




Try going to Teagle after your classes end? I usually go at like 3 and almost never have to wait




There are plenty of day use lockers around campus for free. Sometimes I'll drop a bag off on my way to class in the morning to avoid carrying it around all day. I figure that I want new clothes anyway, and a lightweight towel (looking at the quick dry camping ones) and small toiletries aren't that heavy. And its free.




Where did you see that Noyes is extending their hours this year?




Website says they have day-use lockers, and you must remove the lock when you leave.

https://recreation.athletics.cornell.edu/fitness-centers/membership/policies

I'd email them and ask to be certain:

fitness@cornell.edu




Ultimately, through your many semesters as a student, you are going to discover what works best for you and what you hate. Personally, I hate afternoon classes but if I had the choice, I'd take a Monday class over a Friday afternoon any day (trust me when I say being done for the week the sooner you can is better!). But no one can really answer this question for you. You'll figure out your preferences and what you enjoy over time!

Also as a pro-tip, when taking screenshots of your schedule, I would get it from class roster/scheduler instead of student center, as it's much more readable (it's more helpful for you, for a family member who wants to see your schedule, for anyone you're sending your schedule to, etc.). 

Good luck with freshman year!




It's not random because bowling happens at Helen Newman Hall, which is really close to the freshmen dorms on north campus. This means you could go to your dorm room after math lecture (or go to a library or whatever), but eventually return to north for bowling, and after bowling you're close to your dorm for the rest of the day (if you want to stay). tl;dr if you're at north around those times it's not random or inconvenient. I also wouldn't stress too much about how nice a schedule comes together as long as everything fits really.




I don't see the problem, especially if you have things set aside for Friday. Bowling is pretty chill of a course.




At least when I took it, you could go to any bowling session on any day as long as you hit the minimum attendance requirement by the end of the semester, so it doesn't matter where it is on your schedule.




Hyperloop isn’t a (groan) “‘top tier’” project team so don’t expect some Silicon Valley interview question bullshit where they give you some bullshit question that doesn’t assess anything and just gives them a superiority boner and they refuse to help you because then they can’t cum if you don’t flounder long enough. 

If I were applying I would expect standard interview questions and a resume breakdown, going through your potential projects and high school extracirriculars that may be relevant. But, I’m not on the team and can’t say for certain. All I know is that you’re gonna hear crazy interview questions from your friends that some asshole pulled out of Elon Musk’s biography, but try not to let it deter you.




What subteam? Im not on hyperloop- and whether or not they're a 'top-tier' project team is fairly irrelevant because it doesn't change the process. They (project teams in general) know your resume is trash and will like to press you on it to see how you handle pressure, whether you're a good bullshiter or an honest person or if you actually have some skills they could use. The best case scenario is you show you are able to learn quickly because thats what they care about for a freshman recruit.




lol just leetcode




I know this probably isn’t the answer you’re looking for, but I cold emailed a bunch of professors at a local state university for summer research opportunities and got a ton of responses (this was regarding agricultural and resource economics research). If you’re super interested in pursuing research opportunities and you’re looking for summer activities, I’d highly recommend doing this for the experience next summer.




Aem has a listserv with all the AEM students in it, and if a prof needs undergrad RAs they will ask the Dyson student services people to advertise. IDK if you can get on it tho because it's only for AEM majors. 

You could also take a higher level AEM or econ class and ask the prof if you can take part in their research.

I also know non AEM people who got research positions by simply cold emailing a ton of profs




Speak to your ECON major advisor. Get on research related listserv. Cold emailing professors. In that order.




So im in hbhs but its also in humec and from my understanding its kinda like interior design stuff. My friend knows a dea grad that designed a gucci store




Do some research first and make sure they’re worth your time. 

I could only theoretically pay something like $1,500 a semester with scholarships. Anything more than that subtracts from my aid instead of from my massive loans. So I’d have to get thousands in scholarships to even start paying against my loans, so it just isn’t even worth my time to try and get them. Because like how in God’s name could I get tens of thousands a semester in scholarships? Thanks Cornell, very cool. 

So yeah make sure you don’t have something similar going on first.




100% agrees with the previous poster. My financial aid from Cornell was not what I would have hoped, so I applied to a bunch of scholarships. I ending up getting a pretty significant 4 year scholarship but it turned my financial aid into (original amount - yearly scholarship payment) and honestly that made my life kind of stressful when the scholarship payment can late and Cornell was telling me I couldn't register for classes without paying. 

With no scholarship, I would essentially have the same loans I have now (give or take a few hundred dollars). Unless you are paying full tuition, it might not be worth it.




Definitely agree as well. Entering freshman year, I had won a small 2.5k scholarship, thinking it would help me. Nope, they just subtracted it from my work study. Definitely didn't really do much and if anything made it harder for me to find a job.




it took you a month to learn java?

rip




Oh yeah? Build an interpreter from the ground up in OCaml. You won't lil bitch.




one of the lower effort /r/cornell trolls 

3/10




OP probably can’t even solve a leetcode easy without looking at the solution




aLL YoU dO Is cODe 
- goes to a school with the name of a vacuum cleaner




wtf i hate cs now




If you’re actually serious, you didn’t even take a CS prelim at cornell. You probably taught yourself nothing.




ur not funny




[deleted]




1) there's a website of on campus jobs, it's the first link that comes up when you Google it.

2) The dining halls are always taking people.

3) Easiest is a lab manager I'd say, but everyone knows that so they all try and get it.

Edit: spelling




Hi,

You can find job postings here, and also in the fitness center page

https://studentjobs.seo.cornell.edu/jobpostings?term=100&region=102&field=any&extra=1&criteria=




Pm me if interested, I am subletting room on college ave




Airbnb my guy




pm me




This depends on a lot of things.

You may want to figure out where you are trying to live, your price range, and how large your group is/if you have a group.

Some people sign leases in early September for the following year, but this isn't really necessary. However, if you wait your options may be fewer and you may not be able to find housing with, for example, the exact number of bedrooms you're looking for, or one in your ideal location/price range.

Housing also picks back up around March when the housing lottery comes out. I personally signed a lease in March sophomore year for junior year and know others who did the same and it worked out fine.

I looked on craigslist, the facebook housing/roommates group, and also found [this website](https://listings.offcampusliving.cornell.edu/) helpful.

There are pros and cons to finding housing with a group vs. by yourself. Pros of looking with a group are that you know you will be living with people you know and it's easier to communicate with them. Cons are that it's fairly difficult, especially later on, to find housing that meets the exact needs of your group. There are usually more posts on the facebook group that are looking for one extra person too, vs. an extra n people, so from that perspective looking individually for roommates may be easier.

My recommendation is to start looking soon and narrow down exactly what you are looking for, and if you decide to look with a group, what your group is looking for, and to communicate this clearly. Don't panic if you haven't found housing by the first week of classes, there will still be options available, although they may be fewer and less "desirable" (for ex. north/west/commons has more availability than upper ctown).




I just found housing for the upcoming school year two weeks ago. I used the Cornell housing facebook group. Unpopular opinion- waiting until the last minute can open up a lot of opportunities. I was able to get a nice, prime location apartment at a great price and convinced the landlord to give me a 10.5 month lease, rather than a 12 month lease. My parents were also able to get the landlord to revise the lease itself. If we had looked really early, we would have spent a lot more money. Obviously if you are trying to room with a group of people, this will be more difficult and looking early would make more sense.




There's a Facebook group for housing in Ithaca, but that's just about all sublets. Also, at the start of the semester (the very very start) you can go to ctown and look at places. Most landlords will have contact info posted on the properties and you can reach out to them. I signed a lease for my junior year house in September of sophomore year. Start early.




Seconding the comment that says go to class first. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve gone to class only to find that I never needed half the books I bought.

And once you have the list you need, try and find copies on amazon or eBay. They’ll be way cheaper than  on the Cornell store website.




I’d recommend attending the first class before buying anything.  Sometimes the textbooks are free in PDF form if you know the right people (most engineering classes are this way at least)




This might help. Don't just buy everything from the Cornell store though because their prices are usually a rip off.
https://www.cornellstore.com/textbooks-by-schedule-instructions




Renting books from Amazon is also such a lifesaver. Whereas a textbook may go for hundreds of dollars, you can usually rent it for a semester for around $20-$30, and then you don’t have to deal with it after you’re done using it either (they even pay for return shipping)




Cornell store will send you an email a week before classes, it shows all the textbooks needed.


However, like everyone else said, don't buy textbooks before going to classes but not only that, just don't buy textbooks, there's PDFs for everything, only problem is for the courses that require subscription to do eHomework, fuck those professors.




Yeah, just to pile on here- my first semester at Cornell I bought ALL the textbooks I was told I needed.  Bio, Chem, Psych...added up to like $800.  I think I used bio a handful of times, but the other two were never mandatory.  Selling them back got me about $120, and I was lucky to not have any of the editions become obsolete.

My approach after that was to never buy a book until it was 100% necessary.  So many classes I could entirely avoid buying the recommended or even mandatory textbooks for.  You can check most of them out of the library when needed, borrow them from classmates, or find digital copies for WAY cheaper.  If it comes to a point where you absolutely must own it, Amazon prices are always better or at leave comparable to the Cornell Store and fast shipping is almost always available.




The Cornell store will have a list available online where you can search by class. Echoing some other advice here, always check other places before the Cornell store when you actually go to buy them though.

Also, more importantly, check to see if there are just PDFs floating around the internet. I didn’t pay for a single book senior year because I eventually found PDF versions of all of them. Just basic googling too, nothing really complicated. A lot of them are just there.




thanks so much everyone. I'm definitely going to wait it out. this is so helpful!




If your taking chemistry I could sell you mine for a good price.




Demographics: Male, Indian, NY State

SAT: 1480

APs: AP Comp Sci, AP World, APUSH, AP Chem, AP Physics 1, AP Lang

GPA (unweighted): 3.6 upward trends from freshman year 

Major: Environmental Engineering (Early Decision)

EC's:

* Vice President of Climate Club at School
* Internship for Climate advocacy group
* Lobbied Congress for Climate Legislation
*Helped write and campaigned for Climate Action Plan in my county
* Competitive Table Tennis (numerous awards)
* Coach table tennis 50+ hours
* Played Guitar for 3 years at music school
* Varsity Tennis
* Varsity Swimming
* MUN (2 awards)
* Science Olympiad

Recs: AP Chem teacher and AP Comp Sci/ AP Calc teacher
I'm probably a Longshot, but I'm giving it a try 😃




Chance Me! (computer science):

Background:
 Rising senior 

White Male

Rural southeastern michigan 

private Catholic high school 



Hooks: might apply ed if that counts

AP: taking comp sci, calc ab, lit comp this year (school only offers 4 ap)
honors: technically 9, but 18 at  .5 credits bc we are on semesters
W GPA: 4.4, plus 5 more (@.5 credits) by end of senior year
Act Scores:
35 comp
1.	⁠36 english
2.	33 math
3.	⁠36 reading
4.	⁠35 science

Extracurricular Activities:

Football (2yr jv 2yr varsity, possible captain idk yet)

Hockey( 4yr varsity, again possible captain)

lacrosse (4yr varsity, 95% chance of captain)

french club

volunteer for local habitat for humanity (junior and senior year)

150+ service hours 

Leadership Positions:
flag football referee (sophomore-senior year)
youth lacrosse coach (one of two founding coaches)(sophomore-senior year)
Event coordinator for local historical society
mentor for freshman and transfer students (required of all nhs members)

 
Achievements:

2 league all academic awards


all league football

bunch of GPA awards( high honor roll, academic letter, etc...)

french I course award

French NHS

Nhs

rank: school doesn’t rank


 i’m getting bored of typing so that’s all i’m doing

any help appreciated (especially at making it look like i have a “passion” for one thing or whatever)




Hi,
I am in love with Cornell's PAM (Policy Analysis and Management) program. I know that HumanEc is an easier college to get into, but does anyone know if PAM is specifically competitive? Let me know my chances for ED and any suggestions!

ACT: 32 (35E, 35R, 27M, 32S)

GPA: 3.93/UW and 4.28/W

ECs:

- mock trial all 4 years and over 20 regional/state/national/international competitions, very good mock trial program and about 20-25 hours per week all school year long. (Captain all 4 years)
- moot court all 4 years at Duke University and the University of Denver (Captain all 4 years)
- National Honor Society
- Spanish Honor Society
- Leader of IBIP program assisting men and women in Africa to help research ideas for their businesses.
- First high school student to be a Judicial Intern for federal district Judge.
- Club Basketball for 2 years
- Summer Mock atrial Program all 4 years

Awards:

- Numerous mock trial awards for best attorneys and witnesses at national/state/regional level.
- Named Advocate of the Year at high school
APs: 7 in total, the scores I have got back have been (5,4,3,2)
Class Rank: Top 5% of class
Community Service: Worked with many different organizations to feed the homeless/provide them with essentials.

Ethnicity: White

Gender: Male

Will not apply for financial aid

Let me know what you think and if you need anything else!




Hi! I'm a prospective student for Cornell looking to ED to Cornell's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) and I was wondering if you could chance me and help answer one of my questions!

Planning to apply: ED to CALS in Biological Sciences

GPA: 4.48/3.84 SAT: 1490/20 Essay ACT: 34/11 Essay 

AP’s: World (5), Art History (4), Chem (4), Physics 1 (4), Macro (4), CS(4),  Seminar (5), Calculus BC (5), Biology(5) , APUSH (5), Psychology (4), EnviroSci (5),

Taking my senior year: Gov (), Physics C (), Research (), Spanish Language and Culture (), Statistics ()

SAT II’s: Math II: 800, looking to take bio in August

Extracurriculars:

Science Olympiad

Science National Honors Society Officer

Linguistics Club

Math Tudor

Key Club

Local hospital volunteering

HOSA

Awards:

Top 3% of Student Body in terms of GPA for all years in HS National and State medals in Science Olympiad

&#x200B;

(I feel like I have a lack of leadership positions, but I have invested a lot of time in my clubs and I have some awards to show for the lack of leadership.)

&#x200B;

As for my essay, I hope to incorporate how my experience at visiting a farm on a school field trip made me realize my passion for the ecological/evolutionary aspects of biology through seeing the almost arms race type of competition that is happening between pests and crops. 

&#x200B;

One last thing, I had a question about applying to the biological sciences major. Does anyone know if I can declare my concentration when I am applying to the school, or is the concentration aspect something I use to go more in-depth into why I want to be majoring in that specific concentration of biology?




Chance Me! ED (Biomedical engineering):

Background:

Indian(International)

Female

Low income

Trilingual

Great LORs

Hooks:

Female in engineering, Indian(cornell has Ratan Tata Scholarship, not sure if it is a hook though), applying ed

No APs provided by school, and top 15% of class all four years

SAT Scores:

1. 1480 (800 Maths, 680 EBRW)
2. 1500 (800 maths, 700 EBRW)
3. Biology M Subject Test 800
4. Maths Level II Subject Test 75

Extracurricular Activities:

Leadership Positions:

 Chapter Leader of an international

non-profit company aimed at closing the gender gap in STEM fields

Conducted several workshops with girls at 2 schools and one low income housing society

 Headgirl of student council (10th std)

Sports:

 Pistol Shooting (2013 onwards):

Representing stat in National Championships and National School Games

since 2014.

Attended summer coaching camps organised by the state government exclusively

for national players (2015-19).

Public Speaking:

 Member of School Ted-Ed Club (2018-19)

 Participated in 2 MUN conferences

 Participated in school's assemblies as a compere and poetry recitor.

Achievements:

 Recipient of a Scholarship of INR. 1,00,000 by one of the largest newspaper companies in India

Only 300 given scholarship out of 250,000

 Awarded Student of the Year 2016-17 & 2017-18

Sports(Pistol Shooting):

Several medals at state level and given a stipend by state government each month.




[deleted]




Just curious. I’m an out of state student planning on applying early decision to human ecology. I understand it is a contract school so how badly would it hurt my admissions chances. I plan on going to dental school (hoping to be a pediatric dentist) afterwords and heard this college was the best for anything pre-med. But I don’t know if it would be better to apply to A &S since it is not a contract school?




Hey fellow undergrad/grad students;

Neuroscience or psychology?

I hope to apply to your university this fall and was wondering which major is less cut throat than the other and less competitive. I dont mind getting accepted as either major, as I love neuroscience and psychology equally, and have ECs that show a large spike in both of them. I plan on applying to med school, so gpa is gnna matter alot for me. 

Talking about gpa, hows the grade deflation/inflation here? Are the courses manageable while still having time over for research or parties?  

Thanks for all the help!




Hello, I am a prospective student looking to apply to Cornell's College of Arts and Science, and I was wondering how cornell students feel about the overwhelmingly large student population. I heard that it is hard to make personal connections with your instructors and that cornell students often struggle to find professors to write recommendations. Is this true and if so, do you have any special ways of getting around this problem?




[deleted]




Hi! I am a prospective student applying to the Hotel School ED!

Indian Male DE resident (goes to private school. Predominantly White School)  
ACT (32)   
GPA 4.17 (cum laude member) (school has a weird GPA system)  
6 total ap's (School offers only 11 and a maximum of 8 for a student)  
3 sport varsity athlete (Captain in 2 of them)  
founded a club and leader of the Asian student association  
Member of student judiciary  
100+ volunteering hours at Ronald Mcdonald house  
Worked the last 2 summers as a customer service representative at a printing store

Boys state elected official  
Am I competitive or Nah?




Cornell ED Chance Me? 
CALS

Intended major: Animal Science

Ethnicity/Gender: White/Asian Female (from Nevada)

Weighted GPA: 4.629, max GPA at my school is 4.8 

Unweighted GPA: 3.829 (might change after first semester, lower or higher)

Class rank: 42/770 (not too competitive public high school)

ACT: 31, 32 superscore but they don’t take that :|

SAT II: 760 Biology E and 680 on Math 2 which I plan on retaking

APs: I was not the best at the exams lol
* World History (3)
* Biology (3)
* Lang (3)
* US History (2)
* Psychology (5) 

Senior APs: Making 10 in total

* Environmental Science
* Calculus AB
* French Lang & Culture
* Government
* IB Literature

Extracurriculars: pretty basic and most not long term...
* 4 years varsity track (will be) - only award I got was most improved, but that was given by my coach
* 3 years varsity tennis (joined sophomore year)
* Years 6-10 Orchestra - we played at a national conference in Chicago which required auditions, don't know if this is worth saying or not
* Private violin lessons for 2 years
* Private piano lessons for 4 or 5 years
* HOSA (STEM club) for 1 year, no awards or special positions
* Vegan club for 1 year, just a member
* Animal Advocate club 1 year, also just a member
* NHS, going on my second year - volunteered at a book prep place which cleaned up donated books, for my individual hours
* Gonna try to find an animal rescue/shelter to let me volunteer (right now) or get a job at a pet store when I turn 18 in early October, although that only gives me a month before the deadline... (could they possibly defer me if I say I just began?)

Summer activities: these were both short and I don't know if it's worth anything, but I've never had a part-time or summer job.
* 2 weeks at a language camp in Paris, learning French of course. I stayed with a host family who only spoke French 
* 2 weeks volunteering at a wildlife orphanage in Zimbabwe (50 hours)




Hi! I’m a rising senior planning on applying to the college of engineering. I was just wondering, what is the social scene like at Cornell? Are there a lot of parties ?




Hi! I am currently a rising senior and wanted to gauge my stats right now to see if I could get into Cornell University. My goal is to be accepted into Cornell's Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. Plan on applying ED as well.   


Demographic: Indian male from Virginia with parents who both have doctoral degrees   


Stats:

* SAT: 1530 (took it once, no superscore) 760 RW 770M  
GPA: 4.5 (expected to be around 4.6-4.7 when I graduate)  
AP Scores: Human Geography (4), Euro(4), Calc AB (4), Physics 1 (4), APUSH (5), Spanish lang and culture (4), Macroeconomics (4)  
Next year: Bio, Stat, Environmental, Psych, Gov, Lit

&#x200B;

* Extra-Curriculars:  
Part of School Band (Percussionist)  
Formed my own band (we play at nursing homes for free for senior citizens)  
DECA Vice-President (Will likely be president next year)  
Placed as a state finalist for DECA  
Stock Club Treasurer  
Am a member in NHS, National English Honor Society, National Spanish Honor Society, and Mu Alpha Theta  
Volunteer with a cultural organization where we do community outreach  
Interned at a local college for a bio-fuels program  
Won a nationwide contest and lead a team of high school students to India on a 2-week service project to help raise awareness about nutrition among impoverished children.   


College Essays: Working on them currently, plan on using my two week service project to India as a main talking point.

  
Letters of Recommendation: I know I will get outstanding letters of recommendation from my guidance counselor and my DECA adviser, plan on getting one from an English teacher who I have a great relationship with as well.




Hey guys, so Cornell is absolutely my number one dream school for my PhD, and I plan on applying this admissions cycle. It seems like an amazing fit for my research interests, and I will definitely be contacting the individual faculty members that I would love to be able to collaborate with.

I realize the program is *extremely* competitive, and that there are more qualified candidates than the department can accept. I was just wondering if anyone on here could give me some insight into how applicants are evaluated. Is there an emphasis on some factors more than others (ex. GPA vs research experience?), and are there any hard cut-offs that would keep an application from even being reviewed? What would you say makes for an ideal candidate, and which factors should applicants stress more than others?

Thank you all in advance! This is a very specific question so I totally understand if no one has much to offer.




How easy is it to change majors within the college of engineering cos I am confused between biological eng and biomed eng. So it might change if I am admitted




Demographics: Male, Hispanic, NY State

SAT: 1350

APs: Took World, Bio, USH, Lang, and AB Calc. Taking Gov, Spanish, BC Calc, Physics C: Mechanics, Lit, and Comp Sci Principles

GPA (unweighted): ~96 upward trends from freshman year

Major: Engineering (Early Decision)

EC's:

-Senior Class President 

-Sci Oly (got 4th in our region for Dynamic Planets) Going to be running for a position there

-Math Team

-Food & Fashion Club

-Done multiple events with the school like Hispanic Heritage Night and Black History Night

-National Honor Society 

-Spanish Honor Society 

-Tech Honor Society

-Did band for six years but only one year in HS

-Also played soccer for 12 years

-Also played baseball for 6 years

Recs: Public Speaking teacher and Algebra 2 teacher. I'm not at all confident with getting in but idc I love Cornell and I mine as well try.




Hi, I’m a rising senior and will be applying ED to Arts and Sciences. When writing the supplement, does everything have to pertain to my main academic interest (major)? Can I write about other stuff I’m interested in even if it’s not exactly logical with my major?  What if my extra curriculars in high school don’t necessarily reflect my major? Thanks!

Edit: should I submit a music portfolio of original compositions even if I’m not going to be majoring in music since that’s one of my main EC’s?




Anyone doing the 7 year pre-vet program? Would you recommend it? I want to include it in my essay since none of the other schools I’m applying to offer a program like that




Could someone PM me everything one can know  about the economics department. Thanks a lot




I’ve had this happen go to Cornell’s outlook and look in your inbox there for whatever recently a bunch of emails aren’t being forwarded over to gmail inbox.




I was in ILR, not sure how much I can help with your question but feel free to pm me!




ILR undergrad, feel free to PM me too.




I feel that your primary concern should be financial. One of these might be more hireable than the other slightly, but not enough so that you should take out loans or pay more. Cornell's MS CS is fully funded, I doubt that Chicago's is but if there is more potential for TAships or any way to cut your cost it would be worth it.




Any particular reason you’re planning on doing the MPS in 1.5 years? It’s usually a 1 year program.




[deleted]




Have you tried Googling papers? I literally looked up "reram cornell" and found a potential prof...




No, but you can get Apple's [entire video processing suite for $200](https://www.apple.com/us-hed/shop/product/BMGE2Z/A/pro-apps-bundle-for-education). Personally, I would just use [DaVinci Resolve](https://www.apple.com/us-hed/shop/product/BMGE2Z/A/pro-apps-bundle-for-education), which has a free version and a paid version. Unless you're a serious professional, you won't even need the paid version.




You can use it in the libraries




You can get a student discount for Adobe Premiere (or the entire Creative Suite), but that's all I really know about.




Looks like you can get Premiere pro if you can demonstrate a "documented business need".

>  Cornell staff and faculty with a Cornell business need can request a license for either Acrobat Pro or the full Creative Cloud All Apps Plan. Both of these licenses are available at no cost to eligible Cornell employees. When determining if you need either Acrobat Pro or the full Creative Cloud All Apps Plan please consult our decision chart. 

https://it.cornell.edu/software-licensing/licensed-software-students




in bursar/cashnet there should be somewhere where you can access monthly e-bills (for me its on the right of the main page) which has a breakdown of everything in a link to a pdf




My chair on North was a pretty basic wooden chair that I thought was crazy uncomfortable. Unsure if you can have dorm furniture like that removed, so you should make sure you can have your provided chair removed before you get a nice one. 

As another note, I spend most of my time working in libraries, so consider where you're going to be working most of the time.




The fabric ones used in every dorm I’ve been in are horrifically uncomfortable. Like hard wooden back and arm rests, completely flat seat, and worst part (imo) the fabric it’s made out of is so itchy that I couldn’t sit in it unless I was wearing something that went past my knees.




i was in donlon! we had black wheely chairs, plastic with cushioned seating. lightweight and v comfy, much prefer to the wooden chairs most other dorms had




Just FYI, the dorms have a policy that you aren't allowed to move any furniture out of your room nor request to have it removed. They'll get onto you if you leave a spare chair in the hallway.




I’ve been wondering the same thing and might just keep the chair that comes with the dorm in my closet (because you can’t take furniture out of your room) and bring my own chair




Crappy old wooden chair usually.




The chairs at donlon were great compared to the other dorms. They roll and are very comfortable however they dont have any armrests.




The best way to get up-to-date information regarding fulfilling any of your core requirements (and specifically, *if* doing class *x* fulfills requirement *y*) would be to email the undergrad CS advisor: https://www.cs.cornell.edu/undergrad/ustaff

Since they're the people who decide whether or not things would count for requirements or not, anyways, you might as well ask them directly. They would be the only ones who know if whatever specific study abroad programs you're looking at could fulfill requirements.




I know someone who spent a year in Oxford who took 3410 there. I’m not sure if other core classes were transferrable, but I can try find out.




Out of curiosity, what is the "toxic rat race" to you? Do you mean chasing money/prestige? What kind of work would you find meaningful?

For what it's worth, I'm a software engineer in the Bay Area who graduated last year, and I feel quite happy and fulfilled with my job. I get to work with smart, talented coworkers on projects that are challenging and interesting to me. Everyone is super chill (flexible hours, extremely few deadlines), and I'm the least stressed I've been since maybe sophomore year of high school.

I'm sure there are some out there who are busy chasing promotions or whatnot, but that's completely up to you.




I'm an ILR alum. When I was a sophomore, I was poised to go into investment banking at a bulge bracket bank, but had a similar existential crisis to yours and backed out the month before I was supposed to start. I frantically called around to different mentors I respected, and one of them suggested I look into some nonprofits that aligned with my personal interests. I went to intern for one of them--and I haven't left since. I don't make all that much money, but it's enough to survive and enjoy myself, and it's more than enough when I recognize the tradeoff that I'm doing work that makes the world a better place and me a lot happier.

&#x200B;

Feel free to PM me if you want to chat. I know a lot of people who've made the switch from the corporate/start-up world to my nonprofit world. Would be happy to talk about fulfilling work and the like.




In my experience, there was a large disconnect between what I learned as an undergrad and the skills I need to use and succeed in my current position. I imagine answers to your question will depend on the specific field of study and subsequent career path, but I think a lot of recent graduates end up feeling a bit disappointed and unfulfilled when they first start working. Life suddenly becomes a lot more practical (I need to earn enough money to eat and keep a roof over my head) and a lot less contemplative right after graduation. Personally, I thought Cornell made me feel like I was entitled to "more", but I've realized and accepted that that was just my own elitism coming through.

In the words of Homer Simpson: ... So to answer your question, I don't know.




Most of NYC is pushing money around, Most of the Bay Area is coming up with better ways to serve online advertisements.

&#x200B;

The meaningful job is one that pays you enough and gives you enough time to actually do things with your life that you enjoy.




You might like to read So Good They Can't Ignore You by Cal Newport.

The book says that fulfilling work is work that:

1. you feel is important
2. you can get better at doing; is a skill/set of skills you can improve
3. allows you agency in what you're doing, where you can decide to a large degree what you're working on and/or how you work on it

Another important point the book makes is that you'll often hear that to find meaningful work you have to find your dream job, but in reality most people don't have a single dream job waiting for them that will make them feel happy and fulfilled. Most likely there are many great jobs that you'd be happy having as a career, and they most likely fit the three criteria listed above.




I feel like the key is not expecting work to be your source of fulfillment. Sorry, not a real answer.




Fulfilling work is where your desire and purpose meet your talent and experience. If you have desire and purpose for something, but no talent or experience, it's going to be hard. If you have talent and experience in something, but no desire or purpose, it's going to be hard. Look for opportunities where the two streams intersect.

(Shamelessly stolen from my faint memories of What color is your parachute which is a fantastic book)

Also, "The Flower" diagram of WCIYP is great, try to fill it out

https://images.app.goo.gl/p6nAoH1RRgTwmCuJA




I've found this to be the most difficult question of my life. Sorry that I have no answer for you. There are so many different careers and jobs in the world, and you're expected to choose a path in your 20s, knowing next to nothing about any of it, and stick with it for decades.

I specifically chose my career direction because it sounded fun and interesting, but I got bored with it after a while. It's not toxic, it's not a rat race, it's just ... OK. 

I'm not in the Bay area or NYC either, btw.




**LONG RANT INCOMING**    
     
This question already betrays a problematic approach to the underlying issue. Work is not supposed to be fulfilling or meaningful, it is supposed to be enjoyable.   
    
The idea of work being fulfilling plays into the idea that your life has some greater purpose. It doesn't. It doesn't matter if you were one of the engineers who put Neil Armstrong on the moon, it doesn't make your existence more fulfilled than someone who OD'd on coke when he was 15, because your actions can't define meaning in your life. Maybe that cokehead would've become the worst genocidal dictator in history and permanently ended the human race, had he not overdosed. In that case, his actions prevented a lot of pain and suffering, more than if that engineer hadn't helped put Neil Armstrong on the moon. But he could've just been some nobody who overdosed at 15. And maybe in another timeline the engineer totally screwed up his math, and actually killed all the astronauts on apollo 11, laying no groundwork for future projects in that area. And maybe actually ending all of humanity would be a good thing in the eyes of some alien race, and they would've revered that genocidal dictator as a god.  You can only tell with the benefit of hindsight, and if you live your life this way there is a risk you will be dissatisfied with how things have gone when it's over. It doesn't pay to let someone else decide how you want to live your life.     
    
The most important thing to live without regrets is to be true to yourself. No one can be aware of all the consequences of their actions. There are only two things you can do:   
* Make the best decision you can make at the time you make it
* Even if it turns out you made a shitty decision, and even if you could've decided better at the time with the information you had, as long as you can understand why you acted the way you did at the time, and accept that as sufficient justification, you can be happy with the decision you've made and move on.    
    
Here's an example. Suppose you've just graduated college. You're deciding whether to take a job in investment banking in NYC or to become an animal rights activist. Maybe either of these jobs will satisfy you implicitly, so that you have no opportunity for regret. In the other cases, you aren't satisfied. Maybe you're miserable as an investment banker, and wonder why you chose that life in the first place. Then you remember that when you were considering your decision to take the job, you did it for the money. If you can step back and question whether the money is still worth it to you, make a decision and follow it up accordingly, you will no longer be dissatisfied. Likewise, if your activism is going nowhere, and you start to wonder why you didn't take the job in investment banking, you should think back and remember that you decided to be an activist in the first place because you valued your ability to make a change in society over the money, and question what about your beliefs has changed. And change your life accordingly.     
      
As another example, consider why people who are miserable at Cornell are still there. When you just failed a prelim, it's 10 degrees out and you just want to curl into a ball and die, and you're only a sophomore. You have two more years of this left, and you can't see yourself making it through next week because of how much of a failure you are. You start to wonder, is it worth it? Did I make a mistake coming here? The first question you have to ask yourself is why you're at Cornell in the first place. Maybe because it was the next step after high school, and you didn't really think about it because it was natural. But what do you mean when you say it's natural? Do you mean, naturally since I liked high school, I will like more school? Do you mean, everyone does this, and then gets good jobs and seems happy and like they do fulfilling work, so naturally I will do the same and have a similar result? Or many more things. In each of these cases, you have to examine your assumptions, see if they are still true, and think about what you can do to change your life the way you have changed. Maybe you realized you don't enjoy school anymore, and that was the reason you came to Cornell in the first place. Then you have to ask yourself, even though I don't enjoy school anymore, what should I do about it? Do I want to drop out of Cornell and pursue something I enjoy, right now? Am I willing to give up all the friends I've made here, and risk disappointing people who care about me? Do I really think I will be happier doing something else? Alternatively, do I want to keep going so I can get a job that I'm interested in? Am I really interested in that job? Will I end up asking myself these questions again, and am I ok with that? Maybe it's just Cornell, and I want to transfer to a different school. Is there really something I like doing more than studying? Do I want to deal with all the burdens of the real world, compared to college life? All of these are valid choices and considerations, the important thing is just that you can look back at your decision to enroll in Cornell, understand why you did it at the time, and move on to what you think is best for you now. And it's ok to decide you hate all these alternatives more than you hate being in the position you are now, as long as you're ok with that. The important thing is to be able to move on.   
    
People are miserable when they aren't free to make decisions in this way, whether it's because of financial constraints from supporting a family, a lack of resources or flexibility in allowing people to pursue new types of work and lifestyles, a fear of disappointing others with their decisions, or arrogance standing in the way of thinking about your life objectively in the first place. The important thing is just to consider these all as factors in your decision, rather than things holding you back, and try to make a decision you can understand in hindsight.       
      
So to summarize. No work is fulfilling. Nothing you do matters. The only way to improve your life is to stop lying to yourself. And no one can ever justify any of your actions, except yourself.       
    
Thank you for coming to my TED talk.




Cutting out the mindset that competitive jobs are "toxic rat races" would be a good start. "Fulfilling" is completely up to your personal preferences.




How about you go the first day, then find out if you want to keep going?




Took it spring of 2017. Attendance was taken for at least the first few sections, but it wasn't mandatory in the sense that you would be docked for not showing up. Discussion was very helpful to me at least. Generally we would go over the homeworks for part of the section, and discuss concepts that weren't covered fully in lecture.




I took it 2 years ago (spring ‘17) and attendance was taken (I think) and I found it super helpful. You did exercises similar to the homeworks in class and you got to work with a neighbor or two, and then the class went over the exercises together and you got to ask questions and take the stuff home which was good to study. Our TAs also gave us our homeworks back in discussion so that was also good to use for studying purposes. I think it’s a different professor now so idk their policy, but when I took it the discussion sections were really helpful and I would have gone to them even if they weren’t mandatory.




took it spring '18, mine were mandatory. i needed them to keep up, but i was pretty average to poor at linguistics, i'm sure some people wouldn't really have needed them




Took it last semester, they took attendance every time. The discussions were very helpful though, you can use them to ask a bunch of questions on the homework if you look at it ahead of time.




There are online websites that offer such service, although most people certainly remain wary of their accuracy..




It would only be covered by SHP if you had opted into the vision plan, which I'm assuming you probably didn't. I wish Cornell Health would start doing them




Is that the freshmen colloquium? If yes, that class doesn’t need a textbook




I don’t know the answer to this question but I think I know the way you could find out. You could try to check if planned parenthood is in network (through your insurance’s website or call customer service). You should also check if the implant you want will be covered at 100%




I have no experience with therapy, but for Cornell Health in general, if you want to schedule something for the beginning of fall semester you should absolutely do that now or as soon as possible.  If you wait until you get there it will be very hard to schedule anything.




You'll want to get someone independent from the school, Cornell's mental health stuff really only manages crises and cant do long term treatment effectively (they have ridiculous case loads for each psychologist + very long wait times).

I've heard of a psychologist forgetting that they had seen someone in between sessions because they had to wait for so long to see them again and had so many patients. The actual therapists are fine but the system is really set up to defer blame from cornell rather than treat people imo. My personal experience was also pretty negative with a lot of people telling me to leave Cornell or take a lot of drugs. I was lucky to be able to skype call a therapist I trusted and sort stuff out. 

TL;DR go outside Cornell Health counseling if possible




I’ve had a therapist at Cornell and she could only do bi-weekly meetings. If you miss your meeting, you’ll have to wait another 2 weeks to get another one because their schedule is so full. I ended up finding a therapist from home in the summer and she agreed to do phone-call sessions with me throughout the semester. The quality of the therapist from home was also better than the one from Cornell. I don’t think the therapist I had from Cornell was horrible, but the one from home was definitely better. And I’ve heard from a lot of other students that the quality of the therapists at Cornell Health is pretty bad. My recommendation is that you should try to find someone from home who accepts your insurance and is willing to do phone sessions. And only utilize Cornell Health for emergency purposes.




Depending on your insurance plan, you may be able to see any therapist in town covered by that plan.

https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/therapists/ny/ithaca




I don't know the details, but my therapist told me at the end of last semester that Cornell Health is changing their scheduling system. You used to have to call them and they would schedule an appointment for you, which would often be several months out. However, because that was really unhelpful to a lot of people, they're changing it so that anyone can go to a walk-in 25 minute appointment and immediately see a therapist. IIRC, if you find a therapist that you like and want to talk to regularly, you can schedule appointments with them online, but they're still only going to be 25 minutes. Personally I think that 25 minutes is too short, but the walk-in appointments will hopefully be helpful. We'll have to see how scheduling works, because I would imagine that it will still be hard to get an appointment. 

As for my individual experience, I was actually able to get an appointment the same day as my diagnostic call because my situation was urgent enough, although I was very lucky that there happened to be an open appointment that day. After that I had bi-weekly meetings with my therapist for the rest of the year. It definitely helped me and I plan to keep seeing the same therapist this year.

Best of luck :)




It used to be where you set up an initial appointment, they did a short phone call to evaluate your needs, and then referred you to professionals in the area or in Cornell health itself which are covered by insurance and specialize in your problems.

&#x200B;

A lot of people complained about the system telling them that not everyone's depressed when they're sad, or the therapists trying to treat them with therapy when they were, so they're changing things up now. They announced they would do away with the diagnostic phone call system.




If it's possible for your insurance, I might suggest going off-campus. If you want to stay on-campus, almost all of the therapists I've seen were excellent, but they're just very overbooked. Get the process started as soon as possible, maybe call ahead now and schedule an initial appointment your first week or so if possible? because the wait fills up quick. The system is annoying and people are booked up TIGHT but they're good once you get in to see them




Go off campus. On campus it is very hard to get appointments. Also, maybe think about getting it together before you come on campus, not after. Cornell is a stressful place, not great if you are feeling fragile.




They changed the way you can schedule appointments. To see a therapist initially you will be able to go and sign yourself up for an appointment (I believe this is a 30 minute slot). After this, you will meet with the therapist, and from there the two of you will determine what is the best frequency and length of time for future appointments.




If the dairy bar is open, go eat there. If the bingalee dingalee clock tower is open for concert, climb it. Visit the commons?




See a movie, museum on campus, cry in psb, escape room, explore the commons (like hit up waffle frolic or something), go to the climbing wall, cry in psb, tour campus in general if they aren't students here, go up the clock tower if it's open, dairy bar, cry in duffield, go to bars (fishbowl Wednesday if you're here), drive to Syracuse for the museum's there, and probably other stuff 

But for real you'd probably be fine doing a hiking trail because of how sporadic Ithaca weather is lol




4780 is fall only




Fairly easy, A- median, at worst B+.




GVA is Uber casual you just go and they do weekly things like painting and sculpting. It’s a ton of fun! Check them out at club fest.




also have been wondering ab this, I feel like the mandatory assignments in a regular art class would make it less enjoyable than a club




Become an out of house member of Risley! It's the arts dorm, and we have an art studio, jewelry studio, woodshop, 3D printer, pottery studio, etc in the basement. There's open hours hosted by students who will help you however they can, and all materials are provided. It costs ~$45 a year, but I'm not sure the exact cost. It's a great community!




Esp if you get there early yes. Got a mini fridge for a great price, practically a steal since my roommate and I split the price of it.




You mean the Hump & Run?




yes, so good it made someone throw a dump and run bin through a window in low rise 7




Yea




Yea




When is the dump and run? Sorry I am new




no, they can only sing




Yes, I watch them. As an incoming freshman going into CS, it’s nice to see what the campus and daily life is like.

E: wait, we forgot about Anna from Indiana




I’ve had a few conversations with her, she’s super friendly and kind




Lmao imagine going to cornell and watching vids of someone going to cornell




I do! I've been watching her since the beginning of my senior year of high school. Am now an incoming freshman!




Just found her channel the other day, watched a few videos. I have followed Anna's channel for a while though.




I love Katie and Anna from Indiana! Too bad Anna graduated this year :(




My dad found her and showed me some of her videos. It just goes to show that you can have a completely different life at Cornell depending on your major/college haha




Didn’t know who u were talking about at first but then I looked her up and I definitely saw my mum watch her 😂😂




I watched all those videos when I was writing my essays, they were super helpful for getting a feel for the school!




Anna was my 3110 ta for a while... v nice person irl have never watched her videos though




Slater Goodman is also another great guy to watch!




Yeah, I \*think\* Anna and Katie are both CS majors, right? They both seem pretty highly involved in campus and representative of an average student, in my opinion.




It would make me feel really weird to watch YouTube videos of someone younger than me




She is so nasal




Here's what I did, and it's never changed back for me.  
1. Log into outlook.cornell.edu.  
2. Click the Settings cog at the top right.  
3. Click on "Mail" under "Your app settings" at the bottom of the sidebar that pops up.  
4. Scroll to "Block or allow" under "Accounts".  
5. Select "Don't move email to my Junk Email folder."  

Here's an image with all the places to click: https://imgur.com/a/88keLOS




try logging into Outlook.cornell.edu webmail portal and see if there Spam/Clutter custom settings there, perhaps?




JA’s don’t interfere with scholarships—bon voyage, mate.




Just go to Robert Treman or Buttermilk. I believe there is a new bus route this summer that stops at both. Plus, it will be a lot cleaner than the lake!




Go to second dam




I mean someone literally died last week so why not just swim where you're permitted to?




omg do it JUST DO IT




I think there have been warnings of algae blooms the past two years or so. I think it’s worse on Cayuga, but Beebe is not particularly clean




Honestly they're pretty similar, the "bio" info/data you use in the examples isn't really that much of a help in 3010, and 2150 has a great professor, you could go either way.




2150 was pretty easy, i recommend that one!!




If you're low on cash, i know that you can ask for a 1000 or so earlier to help you stay afloat. there's also an emergency fund. 

I think stipends are given out a week before classes, but i could be wrong.




August 15th if you have an assistantship. For fellowships it might differ slightly, I got my first stipend on the 19th.




Ask your department, but it should be Aug 15




Which class if no secret? Also it is possible to search on studentcenter too but a bit more pain in the ass. But at this stage I think the roster is pretty complete.




Depending on which 5xxx course it is, it's offered when the professor wants to offer it. (I.e if professor goes on sabbatical, it won't be offered)




In my department (Architecture) electives are typically not released til add-drop, could be true for some others as well.




Yep.

I spent one summer in Ithaca and they shut down Teagle fairly often. Sometimes when it was definitely hot but far from dangerous.

Cornell should definitely invest more money into the fitness centers but they probably look at them as unfortunate expenses rather than things that bring value. It's definitely a bit ridiculous that the only somewhat-decently equipped fitness center is cramped off into the side of an extremely old building.




Former teagle gym employee here (graduated a few years ago). We're instructed to turn off the fans 15-20 minutes before closing so that people get the hint and finish up their workouts. We dont get paid beyond closing time, and still need to wipe down equipment, shut off lights, and lock up after everyone leaves. If you had asked the worker they would have told you all that and probably turned the fans back on if you asked nicely.

Edit: and dont even get me started on putting the weights away! I'm a runner, not a powerlifter. Putting away all the deadlift weights takes me forever. On several occasions I'd be closing by myself and start putting weights away 15 min early only for guys twice my size to pull them out again for one last set. It's super frustrating




If you were so annoyed you could have turned the fan back on or asked the fitness monitor why he or she did that. Instead you complained on Reddit.




[deleted]




Turn the fan back on broski




I came at 10:40 when he was switching off the fans and I was like wtf? Why are you closing and he asked me to read the note. So annoying.




Totally unrelated question: what’s the best fitness facility on campus ? I’m starting this fall and would like to know which ones the best and why so!




The gorges are really beautiful just seeing as many of them as you can. Also, I’d recommend trying some food too or checking out the mall. Hope she enjoys the campus!




Cornell dairy ice cream is amazing!! I’d definitely recommend getting some before your tour




Check out the commons or some gorges! You can walk the cascadilla gorge trail from college town down to the commons, then walk around the commons for a bit and probably get back up to campus in time for the tour. If you’re in town tomorrow definitely check out the Ithaca farmers market too!




The botanic gardens have a lovely pond full of turtles, panfish, etc. and are only a short drive from North campus!




If clock tower is open then climb it and enjoy the view.




Check out the Arboretum which is just past the Ag Quad! There's a place to park and it's a wonderful place to walk.




Thank you so much for all of your suggestions! We got in a good walk around campus, checked out the gardens, the brains, got some ice cream, and met a few current veterinary students, and pet a couple dogs. We’re already planning to come back to spend more time exploring!




If it's open go to the Dairy Bar in Stocking Hall and get Big Red Ice cream.

If you like bubble/boba tea there's a lot of great places in Collegetown.

You can check out the botanic gardens

Walk around the commons downtown and check out some of the stores and restaurants quickly

If it isn't blocked off still, Cascadilla gorge has an entrance right next to Schwartz Performance center and Cascadilla Hall and you can do a little hike along the gorge




Is the tour any good? When I visited I just wandered the campus for 5 hours and loved it. Sat in lectures, etc. I feel like some kid walking backwards talking ab it’s history would distract my experience.




Check out the brains in Uris hall!




Check out Mann Library and A.D. White library (in Uris Library)! Also, always a good idea to walk around Beebe lake and the botanical garden on a nice day!




Abandoned gun factory




I heard the Museum of Glass and Watkins Glen is nice




Will you exchange them for cherry pits? I have seventeen (17) cherry pits I’m looking to get a fair trade for.




I’ll pay extra dollar if your secondhand earwax is smeared all over them




and if you personally don’t want them pls spread the word if u don’t mind




I didn’t take math the first semester and was fine! Just don’t sign up lol. If you do this then you’re forcing yourself to accept the AP credit though. I had 1910 credit and elected to wait a semester to take 1920 (I took Calc junior year as well and still did fine in the class).




You don’t have to take math your first semester especially since you can use your BC credit to skip 1910 anyways




The problem with skipping math s1 is if you change your mind and decide you want to be bme or bee, you're kinda fucked because engineering advising will be mad at you. I'd only do this if I were 100% on switching to bio.




If you really don’t want to take math, it wouldn’t set you too far behind since you have the BC credit. If you do want to take math in CoE, personally I would recommend skipping 1910. I took my AP credit and went straight to 1920 with no regrets (from what I’ve heard, 1910 can get quite theoretical, which is not one of my strengths).




Certified properties is the worst rated management company in town. I'm sure there are people who have had fine experiences with them, but literally any other option is probably better.

Finding a 1 bedroom or studio at 900/month or less might be difficult, but 900 per person with a roommate or two should be easy to find. Then the tricky part becomes finding roommates.




Hey there, dm me for details. I believe I may be able to help. My complex is looking for roommates.




There may still be spots open at gun hill. Not sure if it'll be in your budget though, but it's worth a look




Hey, I am a grad student and I am considering taking a leave of absence this upcoming year.  I would be interested in subletting my room in a 3br house. It pretty much is well within your budget. Wanna pm me?




I swapped into a 1 pm fws last fall that met MWF. You’re probably not going be completely out of options, but you don’t get to be picky anymore either.




Not screwed at all, people switch FWS, you'll have plenty of opportunities to add.




I forgot to do the ballot freshman year as well. Honestly didn't matter. I just grabbed an open one during add drop.




I didn’t submit a ballot and I had no issue adding an FWS during add/drop since lots of people are switching stuff around too




Same, fuck




Complete non-issue, I added one the day classes started. There's so many that it's not that difficult, and if you have one you desperately want just email the prof. After the whole ballot deadline passes they're exactly the same as a normal course




[deleted]




I'm sorry but there is no way anybody here is going to have the knowledge to tell you how much any insurance plan might cost you




It’s only $3,000 for the year not the semester you just have to pay it all up front. That cuts the cost in half and I doubt you get a much lower rate than $3,000/year for individual market place insurance.




If you are very concerned about the cost, you may be able to get it covered in financial aid. A friend of mine who was on a full ride a few years back was able to get it completely covered.




So not sure how relevant this will be but I was in Grand Teton a few weeks ago and had a fairly in-depth conversation with a young park ranger about how he got the job. He studied environmental science and political science for undergrad and spent two summers volunteering for an organization (I think it's called the youth conservation corps or something like that but I forget). He said that you have to do one to two summers/half a year of unpaid work to get the necessary skills and meet the right people before you apply for the ranger job. The job itself is seasonal for the majority of employees. He's in his 5th or 6th year and there's no full time in sight. He's unemployed half the year which seems like a raw deal. You also have to reapply every winter and don't get benefits since you aren't full time. The full time positions are few and far between and are mainly given to ex military / law enforcement folks. Another option is to work for a non-profit that's affiliated with the park. Each major national park has their own non profit. I did some digging into careers in conservation and it seems like the better jobs are scientists/subject matter experts that work for some agency doing research in the park rather than the park service itself.




I don’t have any advice, but I’m happy that you’re finding something you really want to do! That’s so cool! Good luck with everything.




Volunteering w local trail maintenance organizations (on the national and state level) is a good foot in the door and fairly easy experience to get. Trail crews run throughout the summer and school year for the AT, PCT, CDT and I'm sure a variety of other trails as well. I would highly highly recommend the Student Conservation Association - most positions don't require too much previous experience (just passion), as they are looking to recruit young leaders into the field. Aside from that, all NPS/related jobs are posted on USAjobs and to follow up on a previous comment there are a lot of nonprofits associated w national parks/forests etc that also hire. I've worked in National Forests (w SCA) before & do a lot of small volunteering projects on the side for trail construction, etc so PM if you want any more info! Also I'm a microbio major so a lot of the coursework I do doesn't directly tie into the traditional field either, but it's still very feasible to find work




Not sure what percentage of Cornell alumni regularly frequent the Cornell subreddit so I suggest you also try using LinkedIn as a resource to find alumni who would be able to help you!




oh sweet! you can check out the student conservation association at thesca.org for summer positions with the park services - a lot of them are open until filled so you might be able to apply for a shorter term one still. americorps also has a summerlong option and you can apply for positions that involve working with state parks. 

cornell outdoor education and society for natural resources conservation are two groups with lots of knowledgeable folks, some who have gone on to work in this field. you should also take some classes in the environmental and plant science departments the coming year since they’ll want you to have some sort of educational background. 

yeah! i’ll write more when i charge my phone!

temp edit: this [job board] (https://wfscjobs.tamu.edu/job-board/) is really helpful for field work positions. can you  check to see if arnot forest or other cornell-owned natural areas are still hiring interns for the summer?




The MPA school has really good resources for exactly this! Reach out to some professors and ask for a coffee chat.




Ooh! I just learned this amazing trick. Glad I get to share it!

Get on LinkedIn, find the Cornell University page, and click the tab "Alumni" on the left sidebar. It'll allow you to search alumni profiles for all sorts of things - specific company names, technical skills, etc.




We use Python in the Terminal/PowerShell as it is designed to be used.

Most Python IDEs (PyCharm, PyDev, Spider, IDLE, etc.) are toys not suited for serious development.




[removed]




Pretend to be like Andy Bernard from the office




Normally it’s just scales and pitch recognition and singing a song of your choice. Pick a song in the vocal range where you sound best!




 [https://www.cornellacac.com/the-process](https://www.cornellacac.com/the-process)




https://thetab.com/us/cornell/2017/04/28/cornell-a-cappella-genitals-4929

Have fun




I'd guess its for one of the DEA classes. I think some of the intro classes have you do design research/empathy training/whatever its called, and pretend you have a disability to experience whatever it is they're researching.




Could also be architecture students. Learning about universal design perhaps? Navigating a space on wheels you realize how quite a lot of "accessible" features are still not quite.

??




I dunno, why don't you go talk to them




Just hoping that whoever is injured will be ok

Edit: police confirmed victim has died. According to the report, both were not local and knew each other. Rest in peace 😢




My phone has been blowing up today :/ but that pales in comparison to actually being stabbed




Keep safe!




I just wish I could opt out of the alerts. They don't allow you to because it's an easy way to let those on campus know of an emergency.

However, Cornell.edu email addresses are good for life, and well, I graduated 18 years ago and haven't been in Ithaca full time since '02, or at all, save for a week in '03 and 4 days for reunion in '11. I really don't need 15 emails in 4 hours for a crime alert happening 382 miles away.




https://ithacavoice.com/2019/07/ithaca-police-searching-for-suspect-after-stabbing-on-lake-street-avoid-area/




lil peep? :D




I feel very triggered when they share this information. Like saying that somebody stabbed somebody to death marginalizes all of us because most of the privileged white racists assume it’s a POC or an LBGTQA+ doing the stabbing when in reality white men are not paying taxes




Well, that was a quick exit.



I would've applied but that would mean I'd have to read the sub rules.




There's a lot wrong with his posts, and by wrong I mean biligerent and a bit racist, but if he could simmer down a bit there are some great discussion points in those screeds.




What were the comments




v concerning that they were accepted in the first place




Since there was internal disagreement about the content of these posts within the mod team, I wanted to make my personal position clear. While I felt these comments were potentially offensive, and was unaware of them prior to the public discussions from yesterday, I did not think that they were banworthy and that was the standard I wanted to enforce for mods once appointed (it would have been disqualifying prior to the mod being chosen). However, given the general consensus that there needs to be a higher standard for mods than just not being banworthy, I recognize that these posts meet that standard and voted accordingly.




:))))))




Boo hoo this sounds like drama. If you want to be transparent post the screenshots so we can judge by ourselves




All jokes aside, the mods are correct. 

I do sometimes take things to a grey area that can be taken as offensive, and in the past have definitely been a shitposter. I applied knowing these things would most likely come back up but followed though anyways because I am of the opinion you can separate your own content/opinions from your responsibilities as a moderator (I have done this in the past). I knew that I even though I was not the brightest star of the community I would still be able to remain objective and perform as a mod. Regardless, some members of the community disagreed. After some arguing and receiving some DMs from throwaways ("kill yourself white pussy" etc.) I decided to step down. Not that the insults said to me were really offensive, just that I felt like I would get doxxed, etc. if I remained. It was the right thing to do, anyways - if people were this upset there was obviously an issue.

If I seriously insulted you, I'm sorry. It was never my intention to actually hurt anyone's feelings.




Me n my 5'6" niggas be trippin




My internship has several other Cornell folks at it so today was basically us all collectively losing our shit




Get yourself a girl who texts you as much as the Cornell emergency alert




Thought I was the only one lmao




lol I made a reddit just to see what people were saying about the stabbing




I didn't get any emails, have 2019 graduates been officially taken off the email list? Or was it only sent to people near campus?




Oooh are you down to selling a few tickets only




They just keep on MULTIPLYING 😱




My inbox is being spammed lol




is Cornell ok




There's a Cornell subletting/housing/roommates facebook group! Your best bet is finding someone there




Thanks for letting me know.. the 49569493 messages via voicemail, email, text didn’t let me know already.




criME aLerT




Vann sneakers?  Now that's an impressive detailed description.




Imagine stabbing someone while wearing a white tshirt




I really hope Kevin Hart isn't in NY atm.




> 5'6" tall

When will they learn?




\>Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program has dropped its GRE requirement

Pretty different from what the title suggests




i understand how standardized tests could be considered biased against minorities because minorities are statistically less economically advantaged, but against women? how? if a woman and a man were given identical practice tests and a month to study, with no additional materials, then whoever scored higher simply scored higher. i just don’t see the “disadvantage” simply being a woman has when taking a standardized test.




PC




As a STEM PhD student who has taken the GRE, I think most people who have taken the GRE agree it is not a useful indicator of performance in the program and probably is biased against women and minorities in performance.




Good! Standardized testing reveals absolutely nothing about how skilled, bright, or creative you are. That goes for the SAT, ACT, GRE, etc. The only reason these things even exist is because so many people apply to college that admissions officers need a quick, numerical means to sort through the pile, actual talent and potential be damned. Most people get the highest scores by grinding through practice books ($), attending classes and workshops ($$), and hiring private tutors ($$$). None of these activities cultivate any skill except taking a specific test well, but it sure is a great way to sort out who has the money to afford these things. I'm not too sure about women, but wealth inequality absolutely correlates with race and demographic. I am immensely proud that Cornell is deciding that it will base admissions decisions on who has the talent, potential, and drive, and not the money and resources.

As an aside, this article is really bad. First off, why is "drops" in all caps? Sounds like someone's trying to evoke a visceral reaction where none is really merited. Also,

>...minority groups tend to perform worse than white and Asian people.

What does the author think Asian-Americans are, besides a minority?


EDIT: Not that it matters, but don't expect to hear back from OP. He doesn't go here, he just posts in the_donald and  mens_rights, etc, whoring karma by posting the same links across various subreddits. I guess he's trying to bring us poor college students out of the liberal tyranny that is university education?




My tinfoil hat theory is that this is a way for Cornell profs to lock down any applicants they like without having to justify it and/or worry about losing Cornell undergrads to other schools that have the GRE requirement.




After 4 years of accredited university, research, internships and work experience why the fk do you still need to take a standardized test to prove you belong in the grad program? Are the admission teams too lazy to assess applicants by their work and use GRE as a filter?




Although I doubt applicants who don't submit standardized test scores won't be disadvantaged, it's a cool change.




This reads like a hood memes title




Fin aid is pretty hit or miss.  It’s pretty sporadic, so I can’t really tell you how much you’d receive.  I know people who’s parents make around $90k a year and have full aid or no aid because there are so many other factors that are considered




"Middle of the middle class" doesn't really tell us much, because basically everyone between the twentieth and the ninety-eighth percentile of earners considers themselves middle class. If your parents make a combined total of over ~$150k, you're unlikely to get much aid if any at all. Below that, you have a decent chance of getting some, but the specific amount will be dependent on your personal situation.




Cornell has something called a financial aid calculator on their website. I don't know if this is true for other people but that calculator was spot on for me. Like I think it was around $2-3k off. Also, you could probably ask financial aid to give you a report on how much aid they would give you.




They're super nice to poor kids (thanks Cornell) but I hear middle-class could be a hit or miss, it really depends on your family's assets, etc.




I'd say they are pretty generous with how much they give if you're lower-income (around 40k in California, though they *definitely* do not take in regional information) like me, but for my family situation personally we're still breaking our backs a little bit because I've found the financial aid office to be very strict on approving requests for more aid if a change that would warrant more aid happened recently




cornell gives you what fasfa and css tells it to-so they fulfill all “aid” and if your family makes under 60k then none of it is in loans-all grants




Well, they aren't quite as generous as some of the other ivy schools. I believe some schools have completely eliminated loans (or am I making that up? pretty sure it's a thing). 

&#x200B;

I'm from a small town in the midwest and consider myself middle-class. However, since the midwest is a much lower cost of living than the bulk of Cornell students who hail from rich East coast towns, I'm probably a lot lower on the wealth spectrum than I realize. I have almost all of my tuition covered by grant aid, but unfortunately, the family contribution is more than we can actually afford. Still, I'm really grateful for the amount I receive. It hasn't changed much from year to year.

  
Warning: the Financial Aid office is not very helpful and quite rude...at least to me and others.

&#x200B;

You can do your best to get affordable housing (North is cheaper than C-town) or apply to be an RA (free housing). Some TA jobs pay nicely on campus (usually in CS, not sure about hotel). The meal plan is outrageously priced, as are the eateries on campus. If you can learn how to cook for yourself and actually have the self control to not buy the yummy cafe foods, then you can save money that way. 

Congrats and best of luck!




I’m pretty sure I’ve gotten as many notifications just during summer as I did during the school year, if not more. I wouldn’t be overly concerned.




Campus dorms are more safe because of the need to use your id to get in (and only to your dorm). The alerts are usually for locations "off campus".

To add: this stuff (crime alerts) is much more frequent if you go to Harvard or MIT. A friend of mine said it happens like every other week.




As a freshman, especially the first few weeks, people don’t know each other well enough to know who lives there and who doesn’t. People can walk in acting as if they forgot their ID or having the door held for them and take things unsuspected. I would definitely lock your door. If you do that, you shouldn’t have anything to worry about.




Where are you getting these notifications? Also, I don't think it's worth worrying about thefts. CKB is pretty safe b/c it's sort of in the middle of North Campus.


EDIT: bad timing... lots of notifications today, hope everyone’s safe




The frequency has been higher lately but generally campus dorms are very safe. I left my door unlocked and never had anything stolen. Whether you do this is up to you because there have been thefts on North campus. My first year there was a string of thefts involving laptops and expensive winter coats. I'd be a bit more cautious about leaving your door unlocked if you live in a large hall style form like Dickson. That being said I've left my laptop overnight on a desk in Upson and gotten it back multiple times so I wouldn't be too worried.




CKB is fine. I left my door unlocked (unwise, you should lock your door lol) and never had any problems.

Edit: there was an issue of people piggybacking into the dorms so be wary of that




Cornell is fairly safe especially dorms.




Cornell is ghetto what can I say ¯\_(ツ)_/¯




They might take a while to show up... when did you send them?




Cut to October when they haven’t woken up past 10AM since the second week of classes

“We had a prelim last week?”




Haha joke's on me I didn't have a choice but to pick 8ams




Incoming freshman here. 
I didn’t even get to choose my schedule... They put me in 8:40s. I heard that the schedules can only be changed during add/drop?




I think freshmen are quite the opposite. Coming off of 2nd sem senior year I wanted to avoid even 10 ams... but intro classses just aren't that flexible.




I avoided 8AM but ECON 1110 only runs at 9




Mods please pin this post. Save the freshmen from themselves.




Don't take 8:40s they said. You will miss lecture every morning they said.




2150 is pretty easy and Prof. Smith is great. 3010 if you like stats and want to get a bit more in depth.




I think Psych 2500 is the easiest here




If you’re premed take bio stats. If not, choose any of them. I did STSCI 2150 and really enjoyed the course.




2150 is really straightforward. Prelims are just like the practice ones (prof smith)




2150 w Melissa Smith is great because she's great, she really tries to help you learn and she learns everyone's name in the class (and it's at least 150 people). She also saved my friends' lives one time and is generally a badass




I've heard BTRY 3010 isn't that bad. Super interesting and good prof




If you want to learn R then I know 100% 3010 uses it, the 2150 is nice because Smit is a great Prof. Can't really go wrong with any one of those.




A few years ago I was able to break my housing contract for the upcoming academic year, and I cited financial reasons. Basically I had much cheaper alternatives and told them I was no longer able to afford living on campus. They were immediately receptive to the concern. They just required me to find a replacement to take my spot in the dorm. It was fairly seamless. I'm sorry to hear of your troubles, and wish you the best of luck.




Maybe actually tell Cornell Housing what's going on so they can assist you?




Please PM me. I just went through something similar (trying to get out of a housing contract due to finances) and it was very unpleasant. It looks like the situation is about to be fixed, however.




I’ve heard that depression or allergies can get people out of housing contracts. Don’t know the specifics regarding the documentation needed but those are definitely valid reasons to break it.




If housing contract can't be broken, perhaps contact financial aid for help?




might be worth looking into the crisis management office




Study.




As far as I know, all undergrad residents of the West campus housing system (including Gothics) are required to purchase the unlimited West Campus dining plan. I haven't heard of any exceptions to this rule.




I'm also living in 109 McGraw next year! I believe it's mandatory; I was automatically enrolled in the house meal plan for Cook.




I’m living in 109 McGraw too, and since it is part of Cook House you are required to enroll in the meal plan.




You gotta pay for the unlimited meal plan whether you're actually gonna eat there often or not, sucks for those who skip meals and/or wanted to save $ but that's the downside of living in lavish West campus.




Although the meal plan is required, you are only automatically enrolled in the unlimited west campus dining if you do not apply for a meal plan. If you want to continue using the Traditional plan you can simply apply for the meal plan like usual.

 [https://living.cornell.edu/dine/mealplans/apply-for-a-meal-plan.cfm](https://living.cornell.edu/dine/mealplans/apply-for-a-meal-plan.cfm)




If you're taking the full AEP curriculum - that is, 3330, 4210 (or 4200) and 3610, I would recommend waiting and taking 4380 next year. One of my friends took 4480 and said it was just an overview of which libraries are useful for comp phys, while 4380 is significantly more in depth. I just think 4380 with the rest of the core, while not impossible, would probably be more physics than I'd be interested in doing in one semester.




I have heard from AEP people that the AEP one is better. I have heard from Physics people the Physics one is better. I’m enrolled in the Physics one for next semester. Its at 8:40 but is pass/fail.




I wrote one to myself 4.5 years ago and set it to 5 years. I'm due to get it in like 6 months. Thanks for reminding me about it; I'm super excited now.




I wrote one when I was 12 to send to myself when I turned 18.  Worst mistake ever I hate myself




This is a great idea, thank you! Just wrote a letter to myself.




Wrote one \~2month before coming to Cornell and received it after the first semester :)




Honestly, we don't get enough positive vibes like this in this reddit. Thank you for posting this.




Housing will allocate the next available person who needs housing.  If you are remotely lucky you may go w/o a roommate until the next semester.




I'm more curious on how your roommate switched from a double to a single, especially considering how limited housing was.




Damn I was hoping you would get mega-single




This actually happened mid-semester for me in eco house. Depression from living in the basement or something. I had two queen sizes connected together and slept like an emperor that semester. 

Probably the only thing that kept me from getting depression that semester.




Yes that was after the semester was already underway, right?




Are you a girl freshman? What dorm? I might be interested




Nope. Spent 4 years on a varsity team and not a one of us was tested.




Theoretically it’s like 60 athletes I think every year? 1/2 of which have to be football players. But I was in such a niche sport that it never trickled down to us, so no idea how enforced that rule was.




dude weed hahaha friend marijuana hahahahahaha hahahahahah bro ganja hahahahaha




Pretty sure ENGRD




Even though they are technically the same class, it's so much easier to deal with distribution requirements if you're enrolled in ENGRD. CS is mainly for Arts and Sciences




Last fall, the median for CEE 3040 was a B+.  When I took ENGRD 2210 in FA17, the median was also a B+.




mEng is always an option.

Also you can definitely find a job as a software engineer as an ORIE especially if you pretty much have the CS minor (and then some). You might have a tougher time recruiting than outright CS majors but I'm sure it won't be that bad.




Take a step back. If you just bodied a ORIE curriculum your strength should be a quantitative person with coding skills to supplement not the other way around. You can definitely mold your career into more programming if you want to. You aren't going to change your past 3 years, look forward in time. Either way- take it from someone who likes CS but is a SWE... it's not the same either- CS and programming just aren't the same things.




3410 is good for lower level systems stuff, but 3110 is still the gold standard in terms of preparing you for software engineering:

1. Functional programming is super hot rn (esp with modern day js frameworks and systems)

2. 3110 teaches you how to work with large codebases (the projects are all highly substantial)- that’s the main skill you need to work in industry

You don’t need algo, maybe try to fit in an elective (or not? Since you already took some ML stuff through OR) depending on what you’re interested in. You’ll be more than fine with a OR heavy background




If you want a CS job, I'd try to take at least Algo and one of either 3110 or 3410. If you can get Algo in during the fall it'll be helpful for interviews in the late fall and spring.




Get the cs minor and view your major as a suggestion rather than a pigeonhole for yourself. You probably have the cs skills from your major/classes you took anyway.




Nothing a little chockie milk can't fix




Heh I dont even have the grades with the same symptoms.




Take the AEM2210 intro to accounting with professor little. You'll know whether or not accounting is for you with that one class.




I would take the hotel financial accounting class. It’s interesting— I personally took the SHA-student only version with MacAusland, but HADM 2230 isn’t too bad from what I’ve heard from friends




i tried to start taking HADM 2230 and found it mind numbingly boring, but can't say for sure that it's a bad/good class since I didn't stay in it.




https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bxs28f/got_a_5_in_ap_computer_science_but_im_iffy_on/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

Err on the side of caution. Honors classes in college are a whole different beast than high school and there isn't a tangible advantage taking them over the regular class. 2110/2112 imo isn't so much about competency with Java as it is competency with computer science and ovject oriented programming. However it is worth noting that you can always enroll in 2112 and then drop to 2110 relatively painlessly, but a lot of my friends who have gotten 5s in AP CS got their asses eaten in 2110




Haven't taken 2112, so take my advice with a grain of salt, but from what I've heard/my own opinions:

2112 basically assumes you know Java well from the get go. You'll spend about the first lecture or two reviewing the basics from AP CS, but from then on it's completely new material. 

The hard part of 2112 is not Java. It's the content, and the courseload. Honors courses at college are significantly harder than anything you've done in high school classes, and are not to be underestimated. I've had friends who took the course freshman fall with a regular courseload for the rest of the classes, and ended up spending the bulk of their time working on the assignments for it (I've heard 15-20 hours a week is normal). 

My personal recommendation is to not take 2112 unless you're seriously proficient with programming and have been doing it for several years and know all the basics from AP CS/1110 like the back of your hand. Most of the benefit of taking 2112 over 2110 will be moot once you hit 3000-level courses, anyways.

That being said, if you're insistent on trying 2112, you can always go to the first few lectures, and if you feel like it's too much, drop down to 2110- there's no shame in that!




Honestly if you’re iffy on it I would take 2110 in that case. Java isn’t the center point of the class (and even in 2110 Gries stresses that Java is just the means and in reality it’s the concepts that matter and can be done in other languages). Only problem is 2112 moves fast and is quite heavy on work so you my start drowning early if you are uncomfortable with syntax and conventions. But for the most part you don’t need in-depth java knowledge of like various packages and stuff.




I know that both 2110 and 2112 are very lenient about switching between the two. If I were you, I'd take 2112 off the bat then swap if it gets to be too much.




You can take a look at last year's schedule from 2112 too.

 [http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs2112/2018fa/?schedule](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs2112/2018fa/?schedule) 

I would just note that the first assignment of 2112 is pretty easy, which kinda baited me into staying in the class. However, even though I was also rusty at first and struggled a bit, I thought it was worth it at the end.




Don't listen to the fearmongers. I went into my freshman year with maybe half a year of self-taught programming experience and no Java experience outside of a single night of half-hearted cramming for AP CS. I did fine in 2112.

If you sign up and it seems like too much they make it easy to drop into 2110, which is a lot simpler and doesn't require much prior experience.




2112 requires you either be fluent in Java or be very good at learning it as you go. Either will get you through the class fine, though obviously the latter will take more work.

There's like 1 lecture dedicated to getting you up to speed with Java, one lab section dedicated to setting up Eclipse, and then the class hits the ground running.




Cornell's colors are snot green and white, seems legit




Got the exact same email. Looks sketchy




Forward it to security-services@cornell.edu and ask them.




Looks very suspicious. Stay away.




Common sense says it's scam. Can't believe people actually think it could ever possibly be real 🙃




Noone: 

Literally nobody:

ZingConnect: let's create a tinder for CS majors




Yeah, it’s legit. 

https://news.cornell.edu/stories/2019/04/student-entrepreneurs-face-business-competitions

edit: after reading the article, I think their business model changed, but they kept the name




Is this what you're talking about? [https://zingconnect.io/](https://www.zingconnect.io/)  

It looks pretty legit to me. I hope its real cuz I signed up the other day. I never know anybody in my classes rip lol.




Took the class FA18, workload was minimal, mainly assigned readings and lectures. Not a difficult class, but definitely an interesting one for finance/general banking.




I think you should come a lot of people make friends during o week! Move in early meet your suite mates and make plans with them even if your shy and even if you don’t think you click you just want a group for when you start and then you’ll find ur true friends




I’m coming to O week to not remember O week.




Definitely the 23rd. O-week is a super fun time and people are very open to meeting others. I, myself, am going back the 25th for the good time that is O-week




I did exactly this my Sophomore year (a long time ago). I met a girl that week, we dated for about two years.




I think we’d be great buddies




I’m going to be an exchange student so I don’t know too many Cornell peeps! Super open to becoming friends! :-)




Ye you should come, o week is a blast and definitely something you look back on fondly in future years.




You should def go on the 23rd! There will be mandatory (ish) dorm meetings, the swim test, orientation group meetings, and like a fun night w/ a bunch of food trucks and live music and stuff. Tons of different events. There is usually even like hiking and kayaking events. Just look at the orientation book once it comes out. 

&#x200B;

I will say, I'm an introvert and DID NOT thrive during this first week. Found it pretty exhausting and hard leaving family for a new place. But that's life! Good experience overall.




i'd suggest checking out cornell outdoor odyssey! it's a great way to make friends. a few of the trips are still open. if you're not really an outdoorsy person, then I would suggest coming on move in day just because people are usually pretty open when everyone is new, and there are orientation week events and things you should do, like taking your swim test to get it out of the way

[https://odyssey.coe.cornell.edu/trips](https://odyssey.coe.cornell.edu/trips)

[https://docs.google.com/forms/d/16EEP3qwFOFSU1jUa5N5HYCH89dvDKT4zjUetJBjI51I/viewform?edit\_requested=true](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/16EEP3qwFOFSU1jUa5N5HYCH89dvDKT4zjUetJBjI51I/viewform?edit_requested=true)




Hey not sure about your specific situation, but our family's plan initially did not qualify because of our out of network coverage, but luckily we could adjust it in December (halfway through the year). We had to pay the $3000, but once the plan was adjusted, it was reimbursed. Hopefully you could work with your network to adjust the plan to meet Cornell's needs within the next year? Not sure if there are any other appeal processes though.




call them and see what they say!! ( i didn’t find out in time and ended up paying that money instead of another plan that I qualified for that was like $300!) I think the deadline is coming up to!! They don’t really make it clear but there are other options.




Hey, did you manage to get cleared in the end? My waiver just got canceled for the same reason and I'm worried about that $3000/semester price tag, thinking about getting off the meal plan completely (7 swipes to begin with) so that I can afford to attend. If you got your waiver to go through in the end what plan did you use? Thank you




Mine was accepted last year. But this year, it's been processing for 5 days now




Move your 1920 discussion lol, no way a class that big doesn't have a better time slot than 9am.




I really enjoyed modding for y’all for the last three years! After stepping down I will, of course, continue creep around the sub and leave stereotypical alumni comments that highlight how long it’s been since I was a student.




Hi everyone! I’m a rising Sophomore majoring in Computer Science (CoE). Very excited to be moderating a community I love to participate in!




Echoing the concerns of /u/Throwaway130024, it is pretty clear that /u/vpl__ should not be a mod.

1. He uses blatantly racist terminology "by accident":  [https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bnjsj7/feels\_bad/en6cqfl/](https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bnjsj7/feels_bad/en6cqfl/)
2. He has disdain for international students: [https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bp71ok/tell\_me\_your\_unpopular\_opinions\_about\_anything/](https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bp71ok/tell_me_your_unpopular_opinions_about_anything/)
3. He seemed to have wanted to fight someone in real life because they disagreed with him:  [https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bd9ccq/cornell\_cs\_vs\_uiuc\_cs\_coe/](https://www.removeddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/bd9ccq/cornell_cs_vs_uiuc_cs_coe/)

(which isn't really surprising since he apparently thinks you are allowed to be an asshole if you can beat 

someone up)

4. On this thread, he somehow already managed to accuse someone of doxxing him with absolutely no evidence.




This is an extremely concerning choice of mods.




Really happy to be a part of the community, looking forward to many great days of shitposting ahead!




Habemus modam! Welcome to the new mods and thank you to every user in this subreddit who makes this such an honest, fun, helpful, real community.




hello y'all,

happy to be given the opportunity to manually filter out movie spoilers and [threads related to cornell alumni soviet bloc-busting spymasters](https://old.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/cb5m0m/elite_universities_moral_cowards/etdlye8/), haha

edit: it was honor to be your mod for 12 hours




No, varsity athletes don't get to pick classes early but if you end up getting stuck in a class that conflicts there's academic support people who can reach out to departments and get you in one that is ok.

Edit: Your coach will also give you a "leave sheet" that you can send to professors so they know when you're missing class for meets and stuff




Nope. It shouldn’t be a problem though.  There are no classes between 4:30 and 7:30, which is when varsity teams generally practice, so you should have any practice conflicts. For meets, your coach will give you a leave sheet to send to your profs so you can be excused from classes while you’re away.




Not sure about courses but I know recruited athletes get their pick of college and major. AEM has a number of slots for athletes for this purpose and it generally fills up first.

edit: was wrong, sorry




I’d say the sooner the better. The longer you go without using it, the rustier you get. 2017 was already a long time ago and unless you have used it pretty consistently since then, you’ve already started to lose a lot.




I took the German CASE placement exam after 9 months of not speaking (I’d been studying since middle school and also had a 4 on the AP) and I can tell you that the test is hard, even if you’ve been brushing up. The sooner the better! I didn’t do as well on the CASE version so I ended up having to meet with the head of the department to explain my gap and get enrolled in the correct course.




The sooner the better! Your placement exam lasts you for 2 years of college. I took mine going into Freshman year and took SPAN 2090 second semester of Sophomore year. It's also better to take it earlier when it's fresh in your mind.




The only time the bus arrives early is when I arrive on time, and when I arrive early the bus is always late or full. 🤷🏻‍♂️




No. A lot of people like to shit on public transit but TCAT is fairly reliable.




Just show up for the test this year.




Pretty sure you just go talk to the prof who teaches it.




Would you take BRBs?




[deleted]




I'm up at Cornell Summer College, and I would like to sell it before I leave. Willing to bargain on price.




Where are you located? I’m interested.




I am very interested-dm if it’s still available my dude




Bike sold- thank you all for the interest!




I was really expecting a banana.




[deleted]




Yes it would increase to the current private tuition price. I know this for a fact because my roommate switched from CALS to Arts




Also consider that many A&S majors are essentially crosslisted with CALS majors, so no point switching if it adds cost but it's similar majors.




No, you'll be fine,  or at least I was




I lived in high rise last year and had no problems with theft. I left boots in the alcove of the suite and all my bathroom stuff in shelves in our bathroom (didn’t have a caddy), and it was fine.




I’ve had a mixed experience. In ckb I left my door unlocked all the time (not really a good idea though) and nothing was ever stolen. In the dorm I’m at for the summer (keeton), apparently there have been a lot of thefts. So safest bet is just lock your door and you should be fine




Since the other people haven't experienced it, I thought I should mention my case. When I was living in Low Rise 6, we had a serious problem with people letting strangers into the building, and those strangers would then go into unlocked rooms and steal stuff. Coats were also stolen from the suite closets. For reference, here's a previous post I've commented in.

https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/a605wc/serial_stealing_in_low_rise_6/

Of course, it might not be the case for you, but just heads up.




The lock on my door didn’t work freshman year (long live LR7) and someone stole all the cash out of my wallet that I had left in a drawer. Someone also stole my suitemate’s flag. We did have a problem with coats getting stolen but idk your shower stuff will probably be fine at least (??)




Practice basic security and you will not get your things stolen. Keep your door locked and don't leave valuables outside. Almost certainly no one is going to steal your towel / used bathroom supplies, or regular clothes. Keep expensive canada goose coats in your room.




Probably the best way to keep your stuff secure is to make friends in your suite so you can trust them not to steal your things and to keep an eye out for strangers.




It depends on the people year to year. I've left my laptop and things in the hr5 floor lounge overnight and nothing was touched.  People in previous years have had things stolen after leaving for like 15 min. ymmv




Nah I don’t think so. I lived in a low rise (so should be kinda similar) and never had my personal items taken or heard anyone’s stuff stolen




I’ve actually left my door wide open all day a few times and nothing’s ever gone missing. Not necessarily the best idea on my part but you shouldn’t have to worry about anything




Idk the answer but don't rely on DUST too much, it's often not updated properly and prone to mistakes.




I was in your shoes around 2 months ago. They will immediately release you from the contract if you give them a reasonable explanation. Email them and attach a letter that elaborates on your circumstances and any financial statements that prove your inability to afford housing and you should be good.




On, that note, anybody want a single in Schuyler? Comes with free bus pass :)




Okay then, just let me know what you decide. :)




I'm down to play; you should also consider joining the reserve club tennis team. We usually have 2-3 practices a week, with occasional matches against other schools too. Plus we get to play at Reis for free!




I’d be happy to play with you, I’m an incoming freshmen this year, I should get some physical exercise anyway 🙄




Down although I haven't played in like more than a year so you'll have to bear with me at first lol




[deleted]




Down as well




Just curious. Do you have to pay for court time at Reis Tennis Center if you are a Cornell student?




down.




I’m very down




[deleted]




thanks for the enthusiastic response! those who are interested can join this discord group: [https://discord.gg/Qzvve3W](https://discord.gg/Qzvve3W) 

not sure if this is the best way to connect, if anyone has better suggestions feel free to say




By any chance, is there anyone looking to play this summer? I'm a grad student here. My level of rallying is 3-3.5




I'm a rising sophomore, just started playing seriously this summer. still a beginner going on intermediate, but playing >6 hours per week these days and want to get better this semester. super down to play with anyone around my skill level




I'm down to play this semester!




Why do you think the course roster makes a point of telling you not to take these together?




Do it. You won’t. Wuss




I've heard from the grapevine that they will legit kick you out of one of the classes if they find you've enrolled in both.




Yes it's a bad idea, that's why it says that on the course roster. The department has been offering these classes for years now and is aware of the workload of both of them. They should not be taken together. It doesn't matter how smart you are or how good you are at managing your time, taking these classes together (plus enough credits of whatever else in order to even be a full time student) is a bad idea.




[deleted]




Really depends on the group that you get for 3110. The workload can range from 6-8 hours a week to 20+ hours a week.




3410 is absolutely miserable. The projects will take up your entire week. DO NOT DO IT!!!!




Yes. Don't do this. I took 3110 in the Fall last year and 3410 in the Spring and it just the worst year of my life. Both have a very heavy workload and would be rlly difficult to take in one semester. I would \*strongly\* recommend taking 3410 in the Fall and 3110 in the Spring. Take one of them with Algo if you want to take 2 core CS classes in one semester, but would not recommend taking these two together.




CS3110 got significantly easier over the years, so I guess it's possible if your other courseworks are light. However, avoid it if you can. You won't have a good time.




I made it through 3110 and compilers in the same semester, so it sounds pretty doable.




I've played in the wind symphony for three years! Feel free to PM me with any questions!

The group is really fun and the people are awesome! It's relatively laid back so there's not a ton of pressure to play perfectly, but overall we sound pretty dang good for only two weekly rehearsals and almost all the students are non-music majors. 

We go on tours every year or two. Went to Haiti and the Dominican Republic January 2017 and January 2019, there was a trip to a collegiate music festival in Connecticut in 2018. There was talk of a potential trip to New Orleans this year and Wynton Marsalis is coming to work with the Jazz band and Wind Symphony again.

The repertoire is pretty varied, from classical wind band pieces to modern experimental pieces and world premiers.




I joined last year, I play trumpet! Definitely was one of the highlights of my sophomore year, I look forward to rehearsals every Tuesday and Thursday. Everyone’s super nice and friendly, it’s a great environment!




Reality is often disappointing.




I still love you




Do you think this is avoidable? I'll be starting this fall and I'm moderately terrified of these situations. I know it's a part of life, but it can't be everyone that has these problems right?




Eh, Malcolm Gladwell is generally not a trustworthy source. A lot of the things he has said have been debunked or shown to be misleading. I think this is the case in this video...watch it again and notice he lists a bunch of statistics that don't actually mean anything.

So for example, he cites that 35,000 low-income students score above 90 percentile on the SATs but only 15,000 apply. What does he define as a "selective college"? I looked it up and a 90 percentile on the SATs is around 1325. The Ivies would be a big stretch for someone with that score. Also, what percentage of kids from middle and high-income families apply to selective college? Why does he always cite these weird and only semi-related statistics? And then he was comparing college budgets to the number of low-income students in those classes? I had no idea what relationship he was trying to show.

I'm all for increasing the number of low-income students in top colleges. But after watching the video, do I know why I should "Get Angry at America's Best Colleges"? Not at all. The guy doesn't do his research. If he had just cited something like, "Study shows that low-income students are X% less likely to get into selective schools when compared to their equally qualified rich classmates" I'd be more convinced.




The numbers don't always indicate difficulty, for example the lowest intro course in my major starts at 3000. Read the pre reqs and course description, if you can handle it then take it.




Yeah for sure




I have a number of friends who have just recently graduated this past spring and I've asked a lot about their experiences. It seems to me that the Cornell name has a non-negligible positive effect. It's kind of hard to actually graduate while being an incompetent fuck imo. (Friends with low GPAs \~2.6 were given interviews and thus a chance to show off their knowledge)

&#x200B;

Also, one of my friends got a position in the valley by hitting it off with another alum after initial contact on LinkedIn. But i mean one could argue that she couldve just potentially met another Bumfuck University alumna  if she went to Bumfuck U herself. In that case nothing really matters and life is how you play it out.




I feel like the main reason why students at Cornell or any other selective university do well is because:

1.) They came in with a higher  on average aptitude / maturity relative to their age group

2.) They had drive / ambition

3.) They were provided a world class education / environment for academics

However, I've seen people who coast  after getting in and then aren't able to really live up to this stigma of graduating from a selective university. I've seen others that break their backs at come out with very lucrative jobs as well though.

&#x200B;

It's a mixed bag, which leads me to believe that going to Cornell does and doesn't matter at the same time. However, I guess the better question is whether or not it was a good financial return on investment, which I have no opinion on as of this time.




Probably less than you’d expect. 

Hiring managers are subject to many conscious and unconscious biases, and the Cornell name could help (or harm) based on the individual, industry, location, etc. 

Look into Malcolm Gladwell’s analysis of the pursuit of prestige and how attending an elite college can be harmful. Studies done by Dale and Krueger show that, unless you’re coming from a low economic status, there’s no measurable benefit to attending a selective school. 

When I was younger, I thought the job market worked systematically: good grades -> good school -> good job. That can be the case, and I encourage students to take advantage of the career resources offered on campus. However, while some recruiters will hire from campus or seek out certain school names, I’ve learned that networks and personal reputation are far more powerful. That’s one reason why elite school status provides surprisingly little economic benefit; many admitted students already have access to the resources and connections needed to be successful. While I personally came from a working class family, in my 20+ year career, I have literally never applied to an advertised position or stepped into someone else’s shoes in a predefined role. 

In my experience, I think the Cornell name on my resume did open doors early on, but my own name is what really matters. Building a reputation as a caring person and a competent hard worker is many times more valuable to your career than your school. 

Do not be surprised if someone with a degree from a less selective school, or even no degree at all, outperforms you. There are many skills needed in the workplace and academia measures and develops only a relative few. Do a quick check to confirm that you’re still a member of the human race. If you are, then strive to become acutely aware of your many weaknesses so you can work on them and grow throughout your life. (Caution: an elite education can promote a fixed mindset which is very harmful to your career.)

Don’t think of Cornell as a stamped ticket to career success. Think of it as a wonderful opportunity to spend four precious years of your life meeting amazing people, living amongst amazing scenery, and learning amazing things (especially about yourself). Recognize the privilege you’ve been given, then go out and introduce yourself to some people, and humbly strive to make your community/nation/world a better place to live.




As a hiring manager I’ve always made a conscious effort to evaluate candidates on their own merits, rather than who they have affiliations with.

That being said, when deciding who to interview I probably do, consciously or not, give a longer look to resumes where the applicant went to my school than those who studied elsewhere.




No, it definitely does matter. If you go to graduate school, it matters where you went to undergrad and who you worked with, even though it shouldn't. If you want to work on Wall St., it actively makes a difference where you went to school since they don't even visit a bunch of places and it's so hard to get your foot in the door. If you want to found your own startup, there are so many more resources at "top" schools to do this and the culture is way stronger. If you come from a poor family you can not only come here for free and earn a good amount of money working but get paid to take meaningful career opportunities that are unpaid. And so much more. It absolutely matters where you go to school which is part of why people care so much about admission processes at these elite schools, with the caveat that for certain specific career paths, it matters significantly less, and it always matters less than making sure you put yourself and your family in a viable position financially.




1980s alum here.

I think the Cornell name will absolutely matter for certain situations. It may help you get into graduate school. If you're planning to become an academic, I think it helps. A surprising number of my Cornell friends are professors. A large number of professors tend to come from the elite schools, in my informal surveys.

It may matter for certain career professions. I've heard the Engineering school carries a lot of weight; you're better off being in the bottom half of the Cornell Engineering class than at the top of many other schools (is what I've heard). Probably matters for architecture. Hotel administration. If your goal is to be an executive at a hotel chain, I have to guess going to Cornell would be a leg up.

If you're a general liberal arts major (like me) going into most "regular" jobs ... I really doubt it. Maybe it might get you an interview for the first few years out. My career is not directly tied to my Cornell major, and I don't think the Cornell name did me any good at all.

I'll add this caveat: I've never taken advantage of the Cornell alumni networking opportunities, and never went to the career center. If you're proactive about those things, and you're going into a career that has a lot of other Cornell alumni, this network may be very valuable.

EDIT: One more thought, I have heard overall it matters more *what* you majored in rather than *where* you went, with of course a few exceptions.




In my opinion, it's what you make of it. If you're driven and lucky, you can end up in a really competitive job/grad school but unfortunately, only like 10-20% of people here really see any other added benefit than they would if they went to any other college. It's still competitive af even if some big companies do on campus recruiting here.




Eh it’s not a top 10




I am using my gap year to apply to Law School. In my case it literally matters 0 :/




Yes, it matters, but more in bad economic times than good times. That's why you'll see a bunch of "it doesn't matter" articles now (and they'll largely be right!) but those articles will disappear in a few years when everything contracts.




I wonder if you saw my post from yesterday hahaha. I could've sent out more job applications during senior year and some graduates get their first job offer after May, so we'll see what happens.

I think the Cornell name can give you an edge in some fields but major, academic performance, etc. still matters. You can go to a less selective school, choose a desirable major, do well academically, have internship experience, and get a good job after graduation.

My gpa was fine and I had internship experience but I majored in something in which many ppl go on to grad school/med school/higher education, although some ppl from my major work right after graduating from Cornell.




F in the chat for 8am and 8pm gang




Getting the 20th Housing Timeslot

Edit: Or a Timeslot 20 minutes later than the one comparable to the last bed on west for the previous year.




I was on an airplane when pre-enroll began so I still only have 1 credit enrolled. I even got an e-mail from guidance about it.




I was on an airport shuttle and I was about to fucking YELL at 9:03.




I did not get an email. Thank you frendo.
Not all heroes wear capes :’)




Im looking at MyCornellHealth, but i dont see the option of where to re-waive the health plan. Where do i go? I also did not get an email lol

&#x200B;

edit: found it




Fuck Cornell for not notifying students most domestic students have to opt-out of a $3,000 charge.




The deadline is 7/31, and I definitely got an email reminding me to fill out the form.




how are people even able to waive it, i was able to waive it my first year and then they added all these dumb new requirements and aren't letting me waive it again




It depends on if it’s a core major requirement or not. For your specific example I’m not sure, but an example I can give is the CoE asks you take CS 2110 and ENGRD 2110 instead. You’re able to switch it even after the class has started so just ask your advisor when you get there




I haven't had any issues on the ILR side when it comes to getting distribution credits that are listen in student center as ILR classes but I enrolled under the History department or the American Studies Department




It may matter depending on major or distribution requirement.

As an example, in CALS humanities dist you can't take more than 2 courses from same dist so it's beneficial to take courses that are crosslisted so you can take them under diff dist groups.




Some majors may also require you to take the course that is listed under that major. The math department does that for example, so just check on those.




There's a board/card game club that meets every Friday night in Goldwin-Smith, even during the summer. It's mostly not Cornell students anymore, LOL, but they're always looking for more people to come play games. :)  [https://events.cornell.edu/event/cornell\_games\_club](https://events.cornell.edu/event/cornell_games_club)

&#x200B;

You can also take the 30 to the mall and go to the game store there. Great Escape Ithaca. There are usually people there interested in pickup games, and I believe they have "formal" open gaming nights on Wednesday or Thursday. Lots of Magic the Gathering players though, so if you go at the wrong time you might run into that crowd instead of people interested in other games, FYI. :) And if you show up on Saturday or Sunday you can watch people play D&D if you're interested in that. My husband runs a youth/teen AD&D 2nd edition game every Saturday morning, and every other Sunday he runs an adult game (D&D 5e) that I play in, and which has the potential for more players although we're not specifically recruiting.




Id be down. Wanted to get into it but never found the time in HS




I love this game if you're referring to Android Netrunner but I suck at it, I would love to play casually during the school year, it's been a while. I have a really hard time finding people to play boardgames and strategy card games with and it's a part of home I miss a lot.




We have no idea what you are talking about because you didnt include details like what was your original major.  What major did you switch to.  What kinds of jobs are you applying for.   Advice is difficult to dispense when there's little info.




Science majors suck unless you’re going to grad school (i.e pHD or medicine). In the same boat, but only looking for a gap year job till I enter med school




As long as you’re not international you’re fine. I had about 300 applications sent out before one responded. Then months later (like 2 weeks after graduation) more companies responded. Happened during the school year but one thing I realised is that if you try then things will work out. Maybe later than you want but it’ll work out.




I have a friend who found their first job 10 months after graduation. He did contract work while hunting. (He was ORIE)

Good luck! Don't give up!




Apppy to law school! We need more STEM people in the legal field  :)




What major did you switch to?




american economy nowadays is very good actually. just keep on improving your resume and send a bunch of applications. since you go to cornell, you will definitely find a job soon.




I took the first VR class in 2016 with Professor Won, COMM 4940 Embodiment in Virtual Reality! I don't know how much has changed in the course, but I really enjoyed it! Professor Won the best professor I had--she's really kind, understanding, and even adjusted work loads and projects based on student feedback. The course wasn't difficult and some really interesting topics were discussed. 

Like I said, I took her class the first time she taught it, so it may have changed and the way she taught it was kind of like trial and error to see what students liked, what they can handle, etc.

I loved the class and the material so much, and Professor Won was so great, that I decided to become a research assistant in the VR Lab and I was one of the founding members of the lab, and now I'm pursuing an education in CS to hopefully work in that field lol




You would have to call financial aid about that, but I am sure unsure why you wouldn't want to accept it. It is a grant, not a loan, so you do not have to pay it back. Pending aid status will switch over once the funds are released to the bursar.




Pending just means they didn't release the payment yet but it's on the way, grants are automatic.




Do a 2217 problem set




Climbing the clock tower if there's a concert.




Well, the new Martin Y. Tang Welcome Center is supposed to be pretty great (I haven't been, so it's still on my to-do list). I suppose that's an obvious one.

As a law student, I'm not sure how relevant a visit to the dining halls or student centers would be. Though a walk through Willard Straight would seem to be in order. If the campus store is closed (I think it's closed weekends in summer), there's another Cornell store on the Commons.

If you have 12 hours, you'll have time to see a little bit of Ithaca. Take a stroll through Collegetown and a walk on the Commons. Have breakfast at Waffle Frolic, maybe. 

It's a short drive to the Taughannock Falls overlook, it's worth seeing. If that's too far, Ithaca Falls is closer and still quite beautiful.

Of course many people visit the Botanic Gardens, but I think you can save that for another time.




[deleted]




You could go to the water falls, I think Buttermilk is the popular one.




Not sure if still relevant, but walk through the campus (Law School - especially the library!, Ho Plaza, Libe Slope, Arts Quad, East Ave are probably main areas) to get a feel of it, I'd say? Otherwise Collegetown is nice to get acquainted with since you might spend time there, and it's really close to the Law School.

&#x200B;

Not much else in 12 hours but I'm happy to suggest more if you find more time to visit again before you start!




I’m pretty sure you can. They never ask where you live when you get a parking pass. As long as you pay that’s good enough for them




On the other hand, if you want to work in tech on the west coast smoke all the weed you want 🙃




I'm an Army Veteran (31R/25Q), who held a Secret level security clearance. They only ever had piss tests and would let you know repeatedly before your first one. After that they will surprise you. The whole process to go through the background checks takes about 6 months and costs the government about $50k so they make damn sure you will pass the test before they start their checks. Top Secret costs significantly more and I believe it takes just as long. The odd part is they call friends and family to get a reference, and don't tell you who they are calling beforehand.   

The biggest reason I ever saw anyone declined a clearance is debt. If they think you have too much debt then someone could use financial incentives to persuade you to sell secrets. I was denied a Top Secret clearance because I married a South Korean, tying me to a foreign entity, even though they are an ally.  

My father is a mechanical engineer with a sub-division of Toyota, who has contracts with the Navy. He doesn't have any type of clearance, but because of that relationship the entire company is subject to drug tests. I don't think my father has ever had to take one personally. Any time an incident in the factory happens the individuals involved aren't allowed to continue working until they take a drug test and it clears them. It could be something as simple as bumping into a wall with a forklift, or anything that stops production to clean up a mess. Visiting my dad at work one time and a senior guy was joking around pushing a mop, because he couldn't do anything else until he passed his drug test. I remember asking my dad about it because he kept making jokes about how he forgot to study for the test and young me thought that meant he was going to fail.




My gf got rejected a CIA internship because she failed to disclose that she took one puff from a joint. They seem to take it pretty seriously but I think they really just care about you being honest up front more than anything




This guy is absolutely right, had a friend of mine be refused an fbi internship bc he failed the polygraph bc of weed. Scared me into getting my shit together, that other dude is talking out of his ass.

/r/securityclearance




"Be careful kids, drugs will ruin your life! That is to say, we will ruin your life if you do drugs!"

--The government, probably




Most government contractor work is piss test so about 3 weeks to about 3 months. Hair follicle is longer (like a year depending on hair growth/haircut frequency) but done more rarely since it’s more costly to perform. For some other drugs it may be actually less, not going to quote anything because I don’t exactly know the numbers but have seen some substances leave the body quicker (given infrequent use).

This looks just like scaremongering.




You don't want to work for the fedgub anyway....

&#x200B;

have some ambition, people.




Probably? There are plenty of clubs/orgs that don't care about long term consistent commitment. Mainly the "for fun" ones.




Chess club 😎




Join the Astronomy Society!




Join band!!!!




I am on a club sport that welcomes new people and people only here for short periods! PM me if you are interested!




Hey! I'm actually an incoming exchange student for the fall semester too! (Law student)

I'll pm you!




Wait didn’t they say they were getting rid of OrgSync? What do we do to register again?




Either will serve you well I’m sure (I haven’t taken 2817 but have had Katzenstein and he is phenomenal). 

However, 2817 may be full because of his popularity.




I highly recommend both courses, but 2817 will be a difficult introduction to Cornell. As Katzenstein is retiring soon, it might be worth taking it just to take a class with him, but be ready for a lot of reading.




Lol




Are you talking about PEDs or recreational stuff?

I just hope you're not injecting that creatine shit in your veins. that shits dangerous bruh




I've heard from a few athletes that there is very little testing. Ymmv though, don't be dumb about it. Weed takes up to a month to clear out.




In the last seven years I think exactly one guy on my team has been tested and they gave him like three weeks warning. To be fair I'm not in a sport where people have been known to be using PEDs




How often you get tested depends on your sport.  Every year they randomly select a few football players and a mix of athletes from other sports.  There’s also random testing at the NCAA tournaments.  So most people don’t get tested unless their coach specifically administers a test.




Working at the hotel on campus is great. The banquets department is less of a commitment than Banfi or Regent Lounge, and also not as challenging. The pay is good, and the team is always really flexible about hours.




Definitely plants. Get some broadleaf tropcial low-light plants and maybe a small grow light for them that you can put on a timer. The grow light will also work well with a daylight mimicking lamp to give you the illusion of sun and help the plants grow.

Plant suggestions (all are beginner-level in terms of care):

[Dracaena](https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-1-d&biw=958&bih=964&tbm=isch&sa=1&ei=l-QnXd-wFcy9ggePkJ2AAg&q=dracaena&oq=dracaena&gs_l=img.3..0l10.2613.32090..32258...1.0..0.102.760.9j1......0....1..gws-wiz-img.......0i67.1zLQT3PpveQ) of any variety, though I'm partial to the corn-leaf - it handles dry rooms well and just needs light and occasional water, and the different varietys can be anything from a desktop plant to a floor plant

[Peace lily](https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-1-d&biw=958&bih=964&tbm=isch&sa=1&ei=uOQnXfHmI_CJggebra3ABA&q=peace+lily&oq=peace+&gs_l=img.3.0.0i67j0l9.17024.17969..18999...0.0..0.81.451.6......0....1..gws-wiz-img.V2o-o95Q1us) - these things are nearly indestructible. They do better with low light, and top shelves/dressers/bookcases well.

[spider plant](https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-1-d&biw=958&bih=964&tbm=isch&sa=1&ei=huQnXd6eDqGKggeYtZ-YCw&q=spiderplant&oq=spiderplant&gs_l=img.3..0i10l10.15068.16075..16208...0.0..0.130.509.5j1......0....1..gws-wiz-img.......0j0i7i30.CTgRyhNoLDo) - great for a desk or a window sill

[snake plant](https://www.google.com/search?q=snake+plant&client=firefox-b-1-d&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjW4fSzn67jAhVEJt8KHU1tD8wQ_AUIESgC&biw=958&bih=964) - see spider plant

Wegman's has surprisingly good sales on houseplants, and home depot, lowe's etc. are good. There are some plants on prime that might be decent deals next week.




I get SAD pretty hard. I’ve tried just overloading my fall semesters and keeping my spring semesters lighter when I can. Hasn’t really worked well though and I mostly just live with being depressed for four months out of the year (at least)




So obviously, the viability of this depends on your personal scheduling needs and social tendencies. But, as someone who had minimal social life and the ability to schedule most stuff however I wanted, I found that trying to shift your sleep cycle to match the Sun worked amazingly. 

Waking up an hour or even two before sunrise made me feel *literally* the best I’ve ever felt in my entire life. It gives you time that doesn’t feel stressed — you can relax in bed for a bit and get up when you feel. Get ready for your day, do some chore-type stuff, make breakfast, make a cup of coffee, etc. You’ll be finishing up that stuff during twilight. Maybe it’s just me, but something about twilight — not necessarily the time, but the twi-*light* itself, the color and just atmosphere and feel of it — is extremely invigorating. Fills me with energy and really sets the mood for the day. 

Absolute bedtime is less important. Go to bed with the Sun (during winter this would be kinda insane), or some hours after. Doesn’t really matter, up to you and your sleep needs. FWIW though, *relative* bedtime is very important. I.e., go to bed at the same time each night. Treat your sleep hygiene with respect and care, and it will take care of you. My sleep stuff was perhaps the single biggest influencer of my mood. If you need to make changes to your sleep cycle (C?), make dC/dt small, and make d2C/dt2 small too. I.e., change your cycle over a week, not a single night, and make smaller changes near the start and end of when you change it. 

Actual hygiene is important too. Not everyone has this problem, but when I have a depressive episode my hygiene is almost always the first thing to go. There were weeks when I wouldn’t even get out of bed, wouldn’t shower for days in a row. Etc. It’s gross. And embarrassing. Sometimes I’d feel so embarrassed that even if I had the energy to go to class that day I just wouldn’t because of how gross I felt. This can be a positive feedback loop. If you catch yourself slipping on hygienic stuff, fix it *fast*. Remind yourself every single day, no matter how shitty you feel, you *have to* brush your teeth, take a shower, do laundry, clean up your room, etc. Feeling clean, and existing in a clean, orderly space has tremendous impact on mood. So, just be on the lookout for that!

Make time and space for things that make you happy and comfortable, even if they’re minor. For example, I have this thing where I really really hate the feel of most synthetic fibers. Not sure why, but lots of them just feel plasticy to me and they make gross sounds and yuck idk. Like my bed comforter was polyester and my god that material sucks. But I just always dealt with it, I mean how more minor can you get right? Well eventually I went out and bought 100% cotton sheets and a heavy cotton blanket as a replacement for a comfortable, cotton pillowcases too. And man it’s just sooooo much more comfortable. Knowing I have a good place to sleep when I come home makes a big change to mood. It’s the small things! I also have this obnoxiously long woolen coat that I wear in the wintertime. It’s so warm and it doesn’t have that gross plastic feel modern coats have, ugh, miss me with that. 

I also love plants. Keep some plants! This year I’m living in a house. I have this metal shelf, I think I might put a small grow light on it so I can have a wider variety of plants than you’d normally be able to keep indoors. Maybe try something like that. Plants are just so pretty and they just brighten everything up. 

I’m sure you get the idea. Stuff like that! Tiny things here and there when the idea comes.




Take Vitamin D supplements.  Seriously.  They acted like anti-depressants for me




also decorate ur room in a way that reminds you of a comfortable or warm place. one of my friends did this and it helped her cause every time she went back to her room it was like she was in the bahamas or something. (bright colors really help too!!) personally, i just try to wear bright colors or happy colors during winter to remind me of home in california and it kinda helps ngl.




I got this alarm clock that slowly lights up in the morning to wake you with “natural” light and it helped my SAD so much. Really felt like I was rising with the sun




Some cool posters for the walls of stuff/places you love could definitely help




If it hits you real bad, Gannett has counselors you can talk to.




You can get a light through Cornell Health!




[https://lovelybees.home.blog/2019/07/30/the-truth-about-seasonal-depression/](https://lovelybees.home.blog/2019/07/30/the-truth-about-seasonal-depression/)




[deleted]




Sun lamp (can get these from Cornell health for reduced price with SHP I believe) and vitamin d supplements




Are the winters really that bad?




[removed]




How do you decide whether to capitalize the first letter of each word in your title? I'm trying to figure out a pattern but I don't see it.




1. Whenever they're available, just check once a week or something. I'm engineering, but there were positions I could apply for the summer before (now for you), but the position I actually got I applied to just before finals week last semester. 

2. Honestly most of the time handshake just takes you to the company site (at least in my experience) so I don't think it makes a big difference

3. At least in tech, companies use scripts to scan your resume for words or phrases they wanna see. If they list required skills and you have them, make sure the words or phrasing on your resume is similar to their wording so the script won't just toss your resume for not having what they want.




Some summer 2020 sophomore stuff has already gone out. A lot has been pushed back since this year SA class, but there are companies currently recruiting/already signing people. Also don’t get discouraged if you don’t get sophomore summer IB as there aren’t many and most are focused on diversity programs. Just get a job focused on some sort of business your interested in and you’ll be fine and also network heavily like currently.

Edit: didn’t realize you are rising sophomore I thought you were saying sophomore-> Junior summer internship. Unless you have some great contacts high up in the bank really pulling hard for you, you won’t get a IB internship post freshman year.




The learning strategies center has many resources. http://lsc.cornell.edu

Also not sure your friend’s major but during the regular school year, you can get peer tutors for engineering and other subjects




I don’t have any advice, but thank you for being a caring friend! :)




Reach out to the prof!!




I think it would be worth it to do this, although I would look into the requirements for an S before doing so because it may be more work than you anticipate. Maybe it would be a better idea to just audit the class, or even just self-study because the lecture halls fill up pretty quickly and all the notes are freely available online.




If you took 2112, you probably know the vast majority of the information in 2110 already. For anything in particular, all of the lecture notes, assignments, and prelims are posted on the 2110 website.




There were all sorts of appliances but many of them were junk or super filthy. Get there early and you might have a chance of getting something good though.




I definitely have seen things like that at Dump and Run, you can also get a ton of other stuff like cups and plates, scissors and tape, and TVs.




Get there early or don't go, only few good things and rest are trash.




You'll want to get there as early as possible, but you could get some good stuff. My roommate and I found a mini-fridge for like, $40 USD? We split the price, used a bacteria wipe or two and it was good as new. I believe my roommate brought it back for the next dump and run, hope it gets more good use.




Ooh, thanks for posting this, I may be able to stop by when I drop off my kid.

>  (but might not match the voltage in USA)

Look on the rice cooker and see if there is small print on the plug that says 120/240v or similar. If it does, it's dual voltage and will work in the US with a simple adapter. That said, it may be more convenient to just buy one in the US through Amazon.




I love Dump and Run. I would also recommend checking out the Reuse Center once you're in town. They often have   
rice cookers.




Did you have to double flex on us




Probably. I had a 49 inch in my 121 square foot single last semester and it fit fine. The only issue is finding a good place for it. I ended up putting it on my dresser which worked well. Also keep in mind how you plan to transport it in and out because that can be a bit of a pain.




Yes but why?




It might depend a little based on your instructor, but it was pretty chill for me. Learned how to float on your back, tread water (somewhat), and do the elementary backstroke. They pretty much just teach you how to pass the swim test, and it was go at your own pace.




Yeah I wasn’t much of a swimmer going into it. Class moved at a pace where I felt comfortable. The improvements folks make thru the semester is actually really inspirational.

Tread water and floating to start, followed by learning front strokes and back strokes, and then jumping into the water.




I knew a TON of people who took intro to swimming! Don’t feel bad about it :)




Is that part of the to-do list?




Cornell University or Cornell College?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornell_College




On the one hand: this guy is rustling my jimmies

On the other hand: he is right




Not sure what to look at between the board and his pigeon shirt.




for anyone who wants the shirt: https://birdsarentreal.com/




did you give it a loving home??




I literally just saw you put it down and take a picture of it and then eat it




Reminds me of the one Halloween about 13 years ago when a dude dressed as a banana ran into my Greek Mythology class while being chased by another dude in a gorilla costume. Right in the middle of lecture. When they got to the front, they switched positions and the banana was chasing the gorilla out of the room. Threw another banana at him, too.

Good times.




ah shit, here we go again




The strife continues...




These posts are getting so annoying




Email cornellrpl@gmail.com, the MAE department's Rapid Prototyping Lab. They have a laser cutter, a CNC router, and a bunch of 3D printers. I've never used RPL for anything I had to pay for but I think they try to make it cheap for people




I think the easiest way to figure this out is to ask the people in charge of the maker spaces... You could potentially get training...




I think RPL will be your best bet here. A lot of mechE students and project teams use it though, and I’m not sure how they prioritize. The student workers there are really nice, so definitely email them and ask. They also post their schedule on their website (Google Cornell RPL and you will find it). 
The architecture school has a lab called the MPF. They can technically also laser cut and CNC, but I know for a fact that architecture students definitely get priority and workers there can get kinda annoyed when non-architecture students try to use the facility.




Ithaca Generator has both, and is run by some cool people.




I’m telling




I know a lot of people with pocket knives and a lot of people who cook so I’m sure it’s fine. Just don’t go bragging about it I guess




I don’t know if it’s explicitly allowed but my friend freshman year had a whole set of chef’s knives and the RA definitely saw them.




Pocket knives and camping knives are fine. Cooking knives in your dorm makes sense. I've never heard of anyone getting in trouble for that sort of thing on campus. I used to keep a 6 inch camping knife and a Swiss Army Knife in my backpack at all times. In my department it was considered strange/unprofessional not to carry a knife.




id imagine its fine if u keep it in your dorm, idk about the survival knives on campus though




What do you need them for on campus?




I think the entrepreneurship minor is the only one of the programs you mentioned to have a specific entrepreneurship focus but the other two would also give you the opportunity to take classes that you think are interesting. With regards to the last question, odds are if you take a certain number of business-related classes you will walk away with one of the minors. So one way to do it would be to look at the course catalog and pick the classes you like and see if they fit into one. You should also consider getting involved with entrepreneurship-focused student orgs on campus. That would be a way to learn a lot of things in a less formal way and some people like the more hands-on and peer to peer aspect of that method. There are quite a few, and Cornell e-Hub also provides mentorship and guidance if you do have a startup idea.




Imo dont do a minor, use that time to create a startup instead. Dont know where to start? Send me a PM when you get to campus and I will help get you up and running.




I am also a CS major in CAS who is interested in business. The entrepreneurship minor is great. I chose to do that over a Business minor or AEM minor bc the stuff you learn is generally a lot more interesting and applicable. If you are interested in entrepreneurship specifically then definitely do the Entrepreneurship minor over another business minor bc you will learn so much more and enjoy it so much more!




You said you don't have a mailbox. And yet, have not received an email from the service center to pick up a package....




I mean usually rpcc only deals with packages at the service center. Unless they changed that over the summer




They should be processing your mail too, and sending a package alert when they do.

If you haven't yet, go ask them directly if they have something because a friend didn't get an email for a parcel but the center had it when she went to check.




You got to consider the fact that the CSS Profile, which is what you used to apply for Cornell Fin Aid and what Cornell mostly takes into account, goes way more in depth than Fafsa. Your family may have had assets that Fafsa couldn't see but CSS Profile did, thus explaining why they made you all pay more than your EFC (expected family contribution). Also, you can apply for a fin aid revesions multiple times, but they really don't change it much from there (I've tried).




Domestic or international? Because if international you are probably SOL.




Did your parents disclose all debts as well? My financial aid came out rather shit the first time around but my award was nearly doubled after appealing. I’d say my case is unique though, as the discrepancy arose from how Cornell considered my father’s settlement payment to my mother as my mother’s income without subtracting it from my father’s income, and some assorted debts which he did not initially disclose. If everything was filed truthfully and no discrepancy such as this could have arisen then you probably will not get much more.




If you log in to Student Center and click on "View Financial Aid" under Finances, can you still not see anything?

If so, that's probably because you didn't have all of your forms in by the priority deadline. Regardless, as long as you have all of the forms in now, they should give you your financial aid package before school starts. 

Most people I know still have packages that are processing, including mine. I wouldn't worry about it until August.




They sent me an email today saying that they may bursar bill before your aid decision comes out and not to worry about it.




If you have submitted all of the forms and its been a while, try calling them.




there's a questionable one in dickson, if that helps




There’s a decent one in Low Rise 7. There’s a pool table in CKB though




There should be one somewhere in Mews




Last semester ckb was trying to fundraise to get a ping pong table. Afaik we never got one, since there were no updates after the fundraiser. there was never one there when I lived there last year




No there’s not, or at least there wasn’t two years ago when I lived there




There’s one in the high rise sky lounge.




CKB used to have nice pool and ping pong tables but the ruthless bastards stole or broke everything. That's why we can't have nice things.




2 years ago there was a broken pool table and a broken ping pong table in bauer. Im sure theyre still broken




i have trouble making it to my 10ams 

im just lazy tho




If there is any time you can do this, it's freshman fall.




A professor for one of my 8am classes offered a grade boost if you attended class every day. 8 ams are hard but they won't kill you.

Source: Me having 8am classes every day last semester




Trust me. Getting up early is something that will benefit your life more than a good grade.




You might think you can wake up for your 8am or even your 9am but truth is you won’t even wake up for your 11am




Idk I put 9AM's in because I always struggle sleeping in and I'll just waste the morning in bed otherwise




I forced myself into being a morning person one semester, and it was honestly really nice. I've probably never had better grades, too. It making sure you fall asleep on time that's the hard part.




Physics and Calc every day at 8/9. Gonna be a fun semester!




I'm forced to take a 9am because Student Center crashed. Can I get an F in the chat?




Back in my day I signed up for MWF 8am calc 2, 9am FWS. 

Don't do that.




Both semesters sophomore year, I had M-F 9am (Just the way the classes worked out... somehow I had the best grades that year). My friends confirm I was a zombie that year




I was late for enrollment, so I had to choose 8 am classes D:




**narrator:** It was at this moment he knew... he fucked up




Signed up late so ill have multi at 8am oof




Try getting up for Crew at 4:30am every day lmfao




1817 no question




Hi! I took the JKD/MMA class last semester with zero prior martial arts experience and loved it. You really will get out of it however much effort you put it. Teacher is great as well, so make sure to talk to him. Enjoy the class!




Sifu/Coach/Aijon Kevin is a great guy, and he teaches quality material in an accessible way.

I took Kevin's JKD class my first semester there and it was great! I proceeded to take it again in the spring. Then Thai boxing the next fall. And Filipino Kali the next spring. Then as a result of scheduling issues and a semester abroad I didn't take another of his courses until spring of my senior year, with a return to Thai boxing.

I'm now a grad student and take Kevin's classes at the dojo where he teaches 2 nights per week, and he got me a good discount to attend.




I took it first semester, and I also loved it. Kevin is great! (don't call him that tho lol) He can come off as arrogant and talks too much, but oh my gosh it is because hes actually fucking amazing with SO many great things to say. I also suggest his Filipino Kali class!




Read the textbook. Especially in STEM




May sound nerdy, but do your problem sets as early as possible! That way you'll get the most out of lectures (you'll understand your professor and what's going on better), you'll get to go to office hours when they're not crowded with a million classmates, and you'll be less stressed since having a growing list of stuff to do is in nobody's best interest. Plus you'll get to help your friends while reinforcing your understanding as opposed to learning it on the spot.

I'd always try to crank them out the day the professor posts them on Blackboard.




Treat school like a job. Leave the dorm before 9am and don't go back till 6pm. If you have big breaks between classes, go find a quiet place to study, do your reading, or finish your problem sets, you can chill and socialize in the evening once you have everything else out of the way.




i graduated but office hours, office hours, office hours, and never skip class if u can




You are significantly more productive in the library. Try to go at least once a week and knock shit off your shit list.

Also, keep a daily shit list.

A shit list is shit you need to do.




Look up active recall




Do extra practice problems not at the last minute. I have a prelim Friday and I still haven’t taken my own advice and am kind of last minute studying now oops




1. Pomodoro timer.[ Like this one - Pomodone](https://pomodoneapp.com/). Sync to trello and make a board just for exams and big assignments. I'm surprised at how few students do timed study. With how much studying required for stem, your body and brain will love the breaks. Keep your psych and muscoloskeletal health up with stretch breaks, plus do more focused deep work by concentrating hard for 25-30 minutes, coming back fresh from a \~5 minute relax/walk/surf.
2. Put all the exam "prelim" dates in calendar as soon as you get the dates, they will sneak up. I used email reminders 2 week/1week out.
3. Master the fine art of skimming for those humanities classes. Some of the matter is fascinating but just remember the curve. Skim and get back to core. Ask around about your core's averages/curves/etc.
4. Consolidate notes. Try google docs for making tables and use that like flashcards, then tagging important cards and sections with terms like 'quizme' that are easy to find and have friends ask you the stuff you need to focus on. I use a little A5 Muji book to carry key cram material in pocket, to nerd it up on stuff that is confusing or TA/prof emphasizes, easy to study whenever waiting for the bus/eating/etc and easy to store in pocket. Onenote is good, use a page per lecture or it will get slow. It is nice to record the lecture and be able to click on the text and hear the prof say it out, getting repetition on all fronts \[speaking/writing/hearing/listening\]. Sometimes I would just record the lecture and type something next to each slide to keep it synced, so I could study for another class if the exam was the next day and needed to focus more effort elsewhere than present lecture. So nice to click back and have the lecture on tape, use headphones w inline mic to record, if you want to avoid the typing sounds if you type any notes while listening. Some teachers give out all slides before class, recordings and transcripts of each lecture right after, some don't release even slides until a week later. It's nice to listen to
5. Visit TA/prof office hours. Especially the undergrad TA's are usually more kind and helpful than grad TA's, but sometimes there are kind and helpful grads. If you prepare questions before the session and make them easy to answer with polite questions, don't be surprised to get a lot of great help from some really amazing ugrad TA's who recently took the course and went through the same confusion.
6. Obviously take all the practice exams after >75% of studying done and without any spoilers as if really taking it, then find similar concepts you missed and get strong.
7. Don't be surprised at what is fair game for exams. Even if it is 2-credit biochem 2 ... got 700 + slides. If you're going for top of the curve, at least know something from each slide, and review what you skimmed whenever you have down time.
8. HAVE FUN YOU GOT THIS !!! Enjoy every minute. Have fun making mnemonics and getting on study groups and Groupme for each class.
9. GET SLEEP, some kids brag about not sleeping, ... crazy, but you'll do much better if you sleep 8 hrs. Nap when possible. Mann has nice bean-bags to fall on and forget the world for a sec. Other spots good too, look and ask around.
10. LAST BUT LOT LEAST. A-B-C. Always Be Chewing. Brain uses lots of glucose so stay carbed and eat lots of fruits and fresh veg.

&#x200B;

edit: dropped onenote and switched back to google docs. onenote running too slow and no way to save backups on mac, poor sharing between OS.




Biggest piece of advice I can offer is go to Office Hours. Yes, sometimes this means waiting an hour to ask one question, but it’s more than nothing. Also, being in a crowded room full of students working hard so they can leave is quite useful, as you can help each other out in between QA time with the professor or TAs.

Lastly, and this should be obvious, but if you go to OH early then you’re likelier to finish your work early, leaving you more time for working on other assignments, sleeping, or if you’re particularly ambitious, having a social life.




(CS Major here) Make a checklist of things and prioritize tasks/set times to do them! I also found it super productive to actually read the textbook and take notes BEFORE lecture (although that can be painful). That way during lecture you can follow along in your notes and highlight/add any thing and spend more time learning than frantically copying down what the professor is saying.




Transfer into Dyson and never study a day in your life!




That office hours right before problem sets are due/prelims are will be packed and chances are you won’t be able to ask your question - go early and do your shit early.




Gonna be a contrarian here and say don't go to office hours unless absolutely necessary. Nothing helped me learn better than spending days with my head wrapped around a problem. You don't have to finish a problem set in one sitting. Instead of going to office hours to try to knock it out in one go, keep it brewing in the back of your mind and work on other material in parallel. The sense of enlightenment that comes with figuring something out on your own feels great.




Don't skip lectures even if they're useless.




you don't need a designated "pre-law" major before law school. there are lots of people that go into the government/poli-sci major just for law school but don't feel forced to go that route. it literally does not matter. a good gpa  in whatever you decide to major in and a good lsat score is going to get you in.




There are definitely pre-law engineers who want to do patent law. Who's gonna make the laws for technology if no one understands technology?




Biomedical Engineering




Like others have been saying, you can literally major in anything. 

In my case tho, I’m going to ILR.




I'm starting law school next month! Patent prosecution is probably the only legal field that requires a certain undergrad major, so otherwise, it really doesn't matter for law school admissions. Choose a major you'll enjoy and get a high GPA in. And kill the LSAT :) Feel free to PM if you'd like, and check out r/lawschooladmissions




Sorry don't have pictures, but they are a pretty decent size. You have plenty of floorspace even after the two beds, desks, closets, and anything else you'd want. I wouldn't worry about it being too small




Ask S.a.a.n.o M.u.r.e.m.b.y.a, Dept. of Murembyology




they’re SO big




they're huge for dorm rooms. the rooms are really long lengthwise, so the beds are really far apart, and there's a big window in the middle with your desks. best double setup i've seen by far; you can both be in the room chilling at a time without being in each other's space. 

check out around the 7:10 mark here:  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUSOTSwgFas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUSOTSwgFas)




If you have access to a car, drive. 

Otherwise, you can take a Greyhound bus to the downtown bus terminal in Buffalo. From there you can buy a ticket for a NFTA bus (kind of like TCAT in Ithaca) that goes to Niagara Falls. A oneway ticket is super cheap at $2. There's also an unlimited option if you want to explore Buffalo or grab something to eat there.

 It's a 3.5-4 hours bus ride and from Ithaca to Buffalo and an additional 50min to Niagara Falls.




I drove. I recommend staying at most a day and two nights. Theres not really much to do other than check out the falls and gamble. Also, the canadian side is better.




I read this as Nigeria lol




Consider staying in Buffalo and making the falls a day trip 

Lot more entertainment, dining and nightlife options. A lot more museums and walkable Trendy Neighborhoods.




Are you asking about the PhD program course layout? I think the first 2 years you take some relevant courses for your learning and research, and then pass your Q exams. Most PhDs I know tend to not take too many courses each semester, and by the end, barely take any at all.

(I have friends who are ECE PhDs at Cornell)




They’re pretty big, I wouldn’t worry




I lived in one. I'm not going to say it's ginormous but it's definitely not cramped. Each person has their own bed so no bunk beds. You also have 2 walk in closets and one wooden closet so it's up to you and your roommates to decide who gets what.




I placed out of 1920, and the exam was fine if you study. Make sure you find practice prelims online from Cornell courses, they reuse some of those questions on the exam and the format is the same.




A 4 on the AP BC calc gives you credit for 1910. Otherwise, the 1920 exam is similar to past prelims. I tried to place out and didn't make it.




the only thing relevant in algo for interviews is dp and some of the greedy stuff, and divide and conquer. pset problems are not representive of interview type questions - much harder esp if you take with kleinberg.

unless you already do a fair amount of competitive programming, you should do leetcode.




You still need leetcode. Assuming youre taking with tardos, the difficulty isnt that bad if you go to OH early.




Taking algo and not doing leetcode is the equivalent of going to class and never doing a single homework assignment. So yeah, grind leetcode.




Over half of graduate students were diagnosed with at least 2 symptoms of mental illness in 2016. So, they probably would appreciate that hug.




Haha yep that's definitely my work ethic!^and^not^my^poor^sleep^schedule^halp




I can’t speak for the others, but I appreciate the cheering on. Thanks :)




Thanks! Need that :)




Except actually, the reason you see us working at 2am is that at 1am we realised that we have an advisor meeting the next day and haven't done anything for it yet...




I just took the class last year fall semester:

&#x200B;

it's a pretty easy class for most students. The majority of my class (class total was 10) thought the class was very easy. There's a lot of homework, but it's just busy work so it's not too bad. The quizzes and tests are not that bad, and my teacher wanted everyone to do well so he graded really easily.  Although note: my teacher left Cornell, so a new teacher will be teaching 1109 this coming year.

&#x200B;

Overall thoughts, this class improved my korean by so much. I'm a korean american and always felt so self-conscious speaking in korean with other koreans. I didn't know how to write a single word in korean, and only knew how to speak everyday korean words. But, after taking this class, I comfortably text my friends and family in Korean, and I feel I have a much better grasp at the language when speaking as well. One of the best classes I've taken at cornell by far.




Did you look up the teacher teaching it on CU reviews? You’ll probably find info on the course iteslef there too embedded in the teacher review




some big topics are cellular respiration, photosynthesis, various systems in the body (cardiovascular/heart, muscular, digestive, respiratory, sensory), osmosis, thermoregulation. that's all i could think of but its a good chunk of the class!




Calculator yes but no formula sheet, except for a list of constants. There might've been a periodic table. Over half of the questions are completely conceptual iirc




No. I have many non music major friends in jazz band




Jazz band auditions are held near the start of the year. There should be some info online. Usually, you’ll be asked to prepare some piece and will join up with some others and play and improvise during the audition. There’s also some sight reading iirc.

The audition is a live audition with other players as well as existing jazz band and combo players who reaudition




Boin jand




Grad students = easier on average. That's all I know.




18 credits is a maximum, not a target. Stop worrying if your schedule is "too easy" or whatever.




Is coursegrab working for yall? I can't seem to sign in :(




omg coursegrab got me into cals wines its the best thing ever




great advice, thanks!




That would be Nasties




Harder than 1817




Schedule is fine.

Edit: personally I can't get up for 8 am classes, but to each their own. Just understand, 8 may be later than you went in to high school, but college is a different environment and it's not gonna be easy to wake up early.




I really wish you freshmen would stop signing up for 8AMs, ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU COULD FEASIBLY HAVE THESE CLASSES LATER, but I'm really tired of saying it at this point. Other thing is that I personally recommend CS 1110 and 1132 the following semester to any engineer over 1112.




Good luck on those 8 and bruh, my very, very dedicated friend couldn't do it and quit going half way through but if you think you could do it then more power to you. FWS show up once the ballot results have been released at a later date.




Hey! Incoming engineering freshman here too, so I can't say much about the schedule, but on https://knight.as.cornell.edu/fws-ballot it says "FWS will appear on your schedule by Wednesday, July 24th."




This looks fine i had a v similar schedule freshman year. The FWS stuff doesn’t show up for awhile




8AMs everyday is gonna be hell but it is manageable




Hey there, I am planning on applying early decision to Cornell for Fall of 2020.

Demographics: Asian Male, intended major mechanical engineering, from Bay Area, CA

GPA: 4.44 W/3.94 W

Course Rigor: 7 APs/5 Honors/1 CC class

Test scores: 1560 SAT / 8-6-8 SAT Essay / 790 Chem / 800 Math 2 / (hopefully) 760+ Physics

Academic Honors: National Honor Society (inducted 11th), Foreign Language Honor Society (inducted 11th)

Volunteering: almost 500 hours logged total in high school so far, been volunteering at the same place for 2 years as well as different miscellaneous service projects (like with the Boy Scouts of America)

Miscellaneous Extracurriculars: BSA Eagle Scout/gold palm, Second Degree Black Belt, TA for my math/chemistry teachers, peer-tutor, School Newspaper Staff Writer

Leadership: Band Council (11th, 12th), Astronomy Club board member (10th, 11th, 12th), 

Music-related extracurriculars (4 instruments: piano, tenor sax, alto sax, clarinet)

* Previously:
   * Piano Level 10 Exam passed (started playing when I was 5)
   * Played sax since 4th grade, private lessons up until 9th grade
   * Started learning clarinet second-semester junior year)
* Freshman Year (alto):
   * Marching Band
   * Concert Band: Alto Saxophone 1, first chair
   * Concert Band Outstanding Musician Award
* Sophomore Year (tenor, I made the switch):
   * Marching Band (tenor)
   * Symphonic Band: Tenor Saxophone, second chair
   * Jazz Band: Tenor Sax 2
   * Jazz Band Outstanding Musician Award
   * Jazz Combo (3rd Tenor Sax)
* Junior Year (tenor/piano)
   * Marching Band (tenor)
   * Symphonic Band: Tenor Saxophone, first chair
   * Jazz Band: Tenor Sax 1 (solo chair)
   * Jazz Band Outstanding Musician Award
   * Part of 2 Jazz Combos (lead player in both)
   * String Ensemble/Chamber Choir (piano accompaniment)
   * String Ensemble Most Valuable Accompanist 
* Senior Year (planned: tenor/piano/clarinet)
   * Marching Band (tenor)
   * Symphonic Band: clarinet (either 1st clarinet 2nd chair or 2nd clarinet 1st chair)
   * Jazz Band: Tenor Sax 1 (solo chair)
   * Part of same 2 jazz combos (lead player)
   * String Ensemble/Chamber Choir (piano/clarinet accompaniment)

&#x200B;

Sorry for submitting a wall of text to this discussion. Cornell is my top choice school and I just want to know as of now what my chances of getting in are! Thanks in advance.




Applying to transfer to Cornell A&S for Spring 2020 as a sophomore.

Demographics: White Male, major: Math and Bio Sci, current college: Purdue University

GPA: College: 3.9, High School: 3.97 UW, probably 4.0X or 4.1X W

\- will take 1st grad level math class in fall, will take first bio class in fall (changed major from engineering)

Tests: 36 ACT

Extracurriculars:

Research (1st year college)

Engineers Without Borders (1st year college)

Marine Biology Club (1st year college)

Photography Club (1st year college)

Study Abroad (Last summer)

Boy Scouts (all high school) (Eagle Scout, leadership positions, etc)

Volunteering at my church (4 years hs)

Film Photography (4 years hs, 1st year college)

Rec league/intramural soccer (4 years of hs, 1st year of college)

(not sure how much, if any, weight Cornell puts into EC's like those last two, was homeschooled, so didn't have the chance to do any school-based EC's)

&#x200B;

I feel like I don't have very impressive extracurriculars, and while my academic stats are pretty good, they're not stellar. I think that I could make an argument in the essays that I would be a very good fit for the school, but overall don't think I have that great of a chance to get in. Any measures of either hope or realism are welcome.




Hey, I'm a sophomore attending a community college in Central MA. I've been considering applying to Cornell's Anthropology program in the school of Arts and Sciences as a reach school when I transfer in the Spring (graduating in the fall instead of the spring), and was wondering if I had half decent odds.

\- Really terrible High school grades, I forget exactly what my GPA was, but it wasn't good. I struggled a lot in High School because I was in a really bad place mentally at the time. I did pass two AP courses with strong grades before things got really bad though, so I don't have nothing at all to show for myself.

\- College GPA of 3.86, mostly As, but I had a single B- in my Freshman year that dragged it down a lot

\- Had to transfer colleges from a community college in upstate NY after my Freshman year to here because of family circumstances, ended up having to take a semester off of school due to timing, which is why I'm graduating in the Fall instead of Spring.

\- Received the academic excellence award for Anthropology from my college in 2018.

\- Had to withdraw from a Spanish class in my sophomore year because I only took it out of a sense of obligation to learn a foreign language when I didn't have much interest in Spanish and was struggling a lot with the professor, was still taking four other classes that semester so I didn't lose full time student status.

\- My current college does not have an anthropology transfer program, so I'm graduating with a basic liberal arts associate degree instead. Took four anthropology classes in my Freshman year though, all of which I passed with As.

\- Taking four honors courses in a single semester this fall to graduate as a part of the Commonwealth Honors program.

\- No test scores to submit

\- Kind of weak on the extracurricular front. I was in my high school chess club, but I haven't done much in college. I plan to look into clubs and see if I can join a club in my next semester to try to bolster myself in that regard, as well as potentially joining Phi Theta Kappa and looking into participating in one or two community service events with them next semester.

Other people I've seen post in these threads have really strong qualifications, I feel like mine are pretty weak by comparison, but I have had really strong academic performance since I've been in college. Do I have a shot?




[deleted]




Should I retake Math II with a 790 as a bio major (applying to CALS)?




Applying regular decision to College of Arts and Sciences

GPA: 3.67/4.0

Rank: 89/504

SAT I: 760 English, 690 Math - Retaking in August and I've been solely studying math throughout the summer so I should be able to get a 1520+ superscore

SAT Subject Tests: Planning on taking Physics and Math II in October

APs: Physics I (4), Enviro (5), Statistics (4), Lang and Comp (4), US History (4)

Senior Schedule: AP Chemistry, AP Chemistry Lab, AP Calculus, AP Lit and Comp, AP Biology, German 3 Honors, My two choirs/ensembles

ECs:

* JV Cross Country 4 years
* Swim Team - Varsity for 3 years
* Track Team - Varsity for 3 years, captain for 2 years
* Bass section leader of my school's competitive traditional choir (it's a class but there's a decent number of out of school rehearsals and performances)
* Member of my school's elite jazz ensemble  (same thing as for choir, this requires more time out of school as we perform at different venues frequently and go on a cross country tour as well)
* President and founder of Earth Club 
* 296 Hr Summer Environmental Chemistry Internship - individual research project overseen by a mentor, presenting at a symposium in August
* Personal Farm Project (for lack of better words) - I take care of 15 chickens and play around with their genetics via incubation, currently working on a reliable way to incubate chicks without a shell for educational purposes
* Model UN for 3 years - Environmental committee every year
* Piano Lessons for 7 years

Awards: AP Scholar w/ Distinction, Conference Runner-up in Track, State Gold Medal Choir

Extra Info: I'm an African American Male living in a rural area of Oregon. I go to a high school with a large portion of low-income families (I think it's the majority). High household income (\~300k). My GPA is very low because of my Freshman year where I got 2 C's and several B's because I had a general lack of maturity and was struggling with coming to terms with my sexuality (I'm gay). I could also walk on to the Cornell track team, I would just be on the slower end of the team. My mother attended Cornell for her undergrad degree.




Could any current AEM or CAS Economics students give me some insight into the program at their school? I have seen the website for both the programs, but this is a difficult choice to make. I believe that AEM is more competitive, which makes me want to apply to CAS, though, the courses at AEM sound interesting (but, I'm unsure because I do not have first-hand experiences). Also, CAS has a language requirement which isn't too appealing. However, at this point in time, my goal is to get into Cornell, so the competitiveness in admission to each of college plays a big role in my decision. I will be applying ED to Cornell. Any recommendations?




Anyone willing to talk to me through DMs about what they love about Cornell? I am researching it for my “Why Cornell” essay, but talking with a current student or alum would be very helpful




Can any Ratan Tata Scholars share their high school stats??




Chance me ED Biomedical Engineering

 Background:

Indian(International)

Female

Low income

Trilingual

Great LORs

Hooks:

Female in engineering, Indian(cornell has Ratan Tata Scholarship, not sure if it is a hook though), applying ed

No APs provided by school, and top 15% of class all four years

SAT Scores:

1. 1480 (800 Maths, 680 EBRW)
2. 1500 (800 maths, 700 EBRW)
3. Biology M Subject Test 800
4. Maths Level II Subject Test 75

Extracurricular Activities:

Leadership Positions:

 Chapter Leader of an international

non-profit company aimed at closing the gender gap in STEM fields

Conducted several workshops with girls at 2 schools and one low income housing society

 Headgirl of student council (10th std)

Sports:

 Pistol Shooting (2013 onwards):

Representing stat in National Championships and National School Games

since 2014.

Attended summer coaching camps organised by the state government exclusively

for national players (2015-19).

Public Speaking:

 Member of School Ted-Ed Club (2018-19)

 Participated in 2 MUN conferences

 Participated in school's assemblies as a compere and poetry recitor.

Achievements:

 Recipient of a Scholarship of INR. 1,00,000 by one of the largest newspaper companies in India

Only 300 given scholarship out of 250,000

 Awarded Student of the Year 2016-17 & 2017-18

Sports(Pistol Shooting):

Several medals at state level and given a stipend by state government each month.




CCO was a complete shitshow last year. The regular conductor Chris Kim is on sabbatical so they hired a guest conductor who got fired after a month for poor management and malicious activities. You might want to go with CSO but the audition process is very much the same.




The audition info is [here](https://www.cuorchestra.org/auditions). In addition to excerpts from this year's CSO repertoire, you should prepare a scale and a few minutes of a solo piece. The difficulty of the audition probably depends a bit on the instrument, but as long as you're prepared I wouldn't worry.

As to CSO vs CCO, it really depends what kind of music you want to play and whether you want to be a large full orchestra (CSO) or a smaller chamber group (CCO). This year's repertoire for both orchestras is also on the website.




Good comments from everyone so far. As a member of CCO for the past semesters, I have some things you should know:

* the audition form advises you to prepare two pieces of contrasting styles. Expect them to ask you to play brief excerpts from your solo pieces.
* In a couple weeks, they will post the exact excerpts of the concert repertoire. Don't make the mistake I did and learn the wrong piece.
* if you make CCO: members of the CCO have to attend a mandatory conference in Vancouver in Feb. 2020 where you will perform the repertoire from November. (You can still attend if you're in CSO)
* The conductor on sabbatical, Chris Kim, is not returning for another year. Instead, the CSO and CCO conductor will be Kiki Kilburn.

Neither orchestra is better than the other. Highlights from CCO the past year include the following:

* Tchaikovsky - Serenade for Strings
* Astor Piazzolla - Muerte Del Angel & Libertango
* Greig - Two Melodies
* C.P.E. Bach - Cello Concerto in A Major

Highlights from CSO (my memory is not too great, sorry)

* Elgar - Nimrod Variations
* Mahler - Symphony No. 5




Chris just emailed us (sent to both orchestras I guess?) that, based on audition sign-ups, we are exceptionally low on the following:

“

Trombone [only one signed up so far]

Tuba [Keshav?]

Percussion [only 2 signed up so far]

bass [4 have signed up so far]

bassoon [none have signed up so far]

trumpet [none have signed up so far]

”

But attendance fluctuates from semester to semester, so you might have a shot at any of the instruments.




The math library. It's not that popular, you can usually get a desk. It's not too far from North campus, and it's right next to Trillium if you get hungry. And it's dead silent and possibly the most boring library on campus, there's nothing to distract you. Once I got sick of studying and grabbed a book off the shelf to amuse myself. It was in Russian and had a bunch of formulas. I went back to my homework.




your mom bedroom




Not secret just underutilized, the Lincoln Hall library. Easy to find quiet corners there




I would sometimes enter random lectures and study there. After all, don't we all do other homework during lectures? ;)




I'd love to explore all the libraries on campus someday, there are just so many places I havn't seen, and hopefully I would find a few cozy study spots along the way.




off campus: a bit of a trek without a car, but the Lab of Ornithology second floor. if you walk up the stairs and past the mural, there is a tiny room overlooking the lake with two chairs. it's sooooo peaceful and quiet :) also off campus - the Gimme Coffee on Hanshaw.

on campus: Lincoln Hall, Mann basement (almost always empty!), Comm department on the 4th floor of Mann, Gates Hall, Sage Library :)




The gallery with a skylight in Snee hall




Find your way into the law school, but don't sit in the main library hall during finals or they will kick your ass out.




Tower Lounge in Uris




if you joined a greek house, definitely utilize it. Just find the lib there or a quiet room and use that, and then you can also take food breaks when you want. I went to the vet school a lot, Mann, Lincoln Hall Lib, Willard Straight has a couple niche spots, Uris Tower Lounge for when you need to eat, The Kinnkedley Room in Uris is the quitest room ever if you need dead silence, and I eventually popped into Gates hall because they have gimmie coffee nearby




Don’t get me wrong-cornell is fucking hard- but to be fair.. i’ve noticed that a TON of mental health issues really stem from student not being able to adjust to college life (they stay up later, don’t eat well etc)

(obviously not all of them) (but some)




I feel like everyone at Cornell at some point has some kind of breakdown.  What varies is the severity and how much stronger you end up coming out on the other side.  From my experience with others, people with lighter workloads have anxiety because they worry that they're not doing enough compared to others.  Others with heavier workloads are over working themselves to the point of exhaustion with the constant worry of failure and bringing down their GPA.  Those who are care free for a semester feel the burden the following year when they are put on academic probation or they realize the consequences of their actions and struggle to readjust to their workloads.  Again, symptoms can range from a mild voice in the back of your head nagging at you to having full blown panic attacks but Cornell is stressful nonetheless anyone who says it isn't is a liar.

However, on the flipside, the stress does yield some amazing moments.  Like after studying for a prelim for weeks you end up with the highest grade in the class.  Or when you've been committing to research for months and you present it for the first time.  Or simpler moments like taking a break and partying over the weekend.  Cornell is full of ups and downs but imo the low moments are completely justified by the highs you may experience here.




Hard classes, bad weather, stress from applying to internships. 

It's not everyone, but you will find it a pretty common sentiment, especially among a lot of engineers. 

However at the end of the day, Cornell is what you make of it. I have friends who haven't felt the depressive mood at all. I wouldn't worry too much, Cornell really is a great place to pursue your education.




I had the big sad sophomore year. My friends from freshman year had abandoned me, which was the start of my misery. Pressure from family and classes getting increasingly difficult just made life hell. Nothing seemed to be going right at the time. I was super depressed and borderline suicidal. Junior year, I started seeing a therapist through Cornell health, and I was lucky enough to get a really nice one, and things started to go well.
It is really difficult to avoid depression at Cornell. The weather really does not help. And i’ve heard from a lot of people that whoever they’re friends with freshman year don’t necessarily stay friends later. Family can play a part. And when classes start getting monstrously more difficult and loaded with work, that light at the end of the tunnel seems to get dimmer and dimmer.
I believe that when people start doing stuff for themselves (seeing a therapist, taking fun classes/PEs just for kicks, eating and sleeping well, etc) can really help during the sad times, but because almost everyone here has sold their soul to Ezra Cornell and sacrifice nutrition/sleep for more study time really leads to higher cases of depression on campus.




Yeah, I had a bit of a prolonged breakdown last fall near the end of the semester. The stress really gets to you. I had days where I would be actively crying while working on problem sets (if I took a break from work every time I had a meltdown I would never get anything done), sometimes I would just curl up underneath my bed in the dark because it was the only place I felt calm. 
It didn’t help that I felt like I had no friends, and I was really lost as to where I was going with my career and stuff. I’m hoping things will be better next year though! 
But yeah, the stress here is real. The students that come here tend to be very driven hyperacheivers that are used to being the smartest person in the room, so Cornell makes all of the classes crazy hard to balance that out, which can be a lot. 
Don’t let that be a reason not to come here though, there’s lots of really amazing things about Cornell!




Don't compare yourself to anyone else and that will help you a lot. Really get down time management and hobbies. It also doesn't hurt to start out at CAPS with a psychologist bi/triweekly and have those consultations help align your time at cornell.

SPEND TIME WITH YOUR FRIENDS!!! the college memories are what you'll really take away from school! The people at cornell were the ones that helped me the most get through it, so really take the time to get to know your fellow cornellians :)

&#x200B;

ALso don't know anyone who didn't have mental breakdowns because we just overthink everything and have so much going on all the time. But then treat yourself after them with some sort of reward. While your semesters are happening you think you'll never be able to get through but once theyre finished you look back and see how much you grow and figure out your method.




I had some pretty bad breakdowns and bouts of severe depression but I already was stressed, and anxious, depressed before I came to Cornell. I think that the people who have the worst of it had previous issues and Cornell makes it worse. 

I also have other mental issues besides depression. However my advice to anyone reading this would be to take care of any mental issues early before they worsen and seek out help.




>InfoSci & CompBio '22

*flips to next page of manga, takes a sip of his boba from the night before (which is now slightly curdled) then drearily looks out the window*

"Ahh.... every year. The freshman. Every year we deal with this horde of subreddit posts from annoying, pathetic, over-eager freshman..." he says, forgetting that he was a freshman the year before.




Those posts are like 80% of this sub’s content over the summer.




Sometimes I've searched for an hour and found nothing tho :/




GURL,  Remember this sis????  [https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/9lzc2f/fysa\_cals\_student\_trying\_to\_double\_major\_in\_info/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/9lzc2f/fysa_cals_student_trying_to_double_major_in_info/)  🐸🐸☕  ????????????




Dude, cmon, take your info bio computer degree thing and eat your stale ritz crackers by yourself




This post is really unnecessary as there is already a dedicated megathread for scheduling questions.




M’schedule




I took it twice and really enjoyed it both times. The class is only 45 minutes long so workouts aren't bad. There was a very wide range of skill in my section so each lane did a different workout. I have some of the workouts saved so message me if you want more details!




I took this freshman fall too. I'd done some swim team type stuff but it was a while ago and boy was I not prepared. I'm a fairly competent swimmer I'd say but I was in the slowest lane and kinda got wrecked. The workouts pushed me pretty hard since I hadn't done any swimming or cardio for that matter in a while. Class was fun and chill if you don't mind being tired. Also if you are a strong swimmer/high school swim team it'll be fun and easy I think.

&#x200B;

edit: english




You don't need to prepare anything. It's v chill. What instrument do you play? (I'm a clarinet.)




The Auditions are mainly about meeting people in the band they are not very serious and you can join regardless of skill. You will be required to play something for the drum major but this is just to gauge skill, and to figure out if there are new people that we will need to teach. Lots of people joined last year never having played an instrument before or starting to learn a brand new instrument. TLDR: auditions are nothing just show up and you’ll be welcomed




Hey, alum/parent here. My kid is in marching band. It's the best experience. I wish I had done it when I was at Cornell. I'm so excited for you! You're gonna love it.

I'm planning to attend some of the away football games this season, I'll be cheering for the band more than for the football team!




Do you have a AP credit for econ? If not, consider adding econ 1110 or 1120. Otherwise, take a look at the core classes for infosci and try one of those (info 1200, 1300,...). If I were in your position considering so many different majors, I'd probably hold off on the language for now in favor of taking a course in each possible major so that you get an idea of what you want to study. Then come back to language/distribution reqs when you're ready for them.




IIRC vietnamese meets in the prof's office depending on enrollment/the prof's availability. A lot of the smaller languages are like that. I might be confusing it with another class though.




The course may be named bio stats but it's applied stats using medical/bio data, literally need to know nothing about bio to succeed. I suggest taking the STSCI courses if you plan to major in Stats because they will use R language (which is very, very important and I'm not sure if AEM stats covers it) and because you might meet a Prof you'll have for higher stats courses depending on who's teaching it. There's also STSCI 2150 as an option, if it's taught by Melissa Smith then I can vouch that she's a great professor.




Assuming you're in CAS, this looks fine.




Yes! this is perfect for a CAS CS major. Def take some distribution requirements now!




I would recommend math 1910 over 1120. If theres a way to push Econ to later in the day or if macro is taught later in the day, then I would consider that.




It's completely manageable. You even have a nice lunch block. Have fun!




it looks manageable, especially for your first semester. I can imagine cs 1110 and math 1120 taking the most amount of time.




OP when did the FWS come into your schedule? I’m looking at my student center but nothing’s come up.




It’s not a hard class. The lectures feel repetitive and sometimes unnecessary. Professor Nelson was fun but I didn’t feel I got a lot of it. Good grade boost if that’s what you’re looking for.




Personally - loved it. Lectures were meh but sections were kinda fun. Like not as much structured debates, but more games to get you speaking. Definitely helped me get my presentation and speaking skills up to par. Had to do either this or oral comm, and that class was a shitshow so was so happy with the outcome of this one.




only hear great things.




easy. fun.




Don't have to go to lecture, super easy class, easy A




I would give it a bit more time, it's not urgent to get these in. But you're looking in the right place.




You can always contact your college’s student services to ask about where your scores and such.




If you login to the college board website, doesn't it tell you where you sent your scores?

Top menu, AP Scores > View Your Scores > Score Send Order History

https://www.collegeboard.org/




They're intro classes. They're relatively easy, grading is straightforward, and content (and expected mastery of said content) is mostly superficial. Class size is large, numbering in the several hundreds. You will need to study, obviously, but the studying should be very simple. Overall just "fun" classes that are easy to keep up with.




Ok so intro psych is supposed to be an "easy A" but if youve never taken psychology before and don't know how to stay on top of your work you're going to end up in the B's, even Cs. The class is easy because the prelims are all multiple choice and aren't made to trick you, you just have to stay on top of the lectures and get down the material, that's it. And there's a lot of extra credit.




Easy.




Intro Soc is a phenomenal class, I took it first semester freshman year and I feel in love with Sociology & ended up switching my major. Super interesting information and I use lots of the stuff I learned in it on a regular basis. Many opportunities for extra credit, and if you show up for class and do the readings, you’re bound to get a good grade.




Try emailing the professor and he'll add you to the class on canvas! That's what I did and on canvas, all the course documents are on there.




I don't think I have the specific objectives and readings saved on me anywhere, but it's basically just all reading from Lehninger and the objectives are directly from the reading.  A PDF of the textbook can be found on libgen or other sites which I found a lot easier to use than the course's online book.




You could sign up for Course Grab or Coursicle and it will send you a notification if a spot opens up. If not you can wait for Add/Drop at the end of August




Make sure you're using [CourseGrab](https://coursegrab.cornellappdev.com) to find any openings. You can always take PE classes another time.




Sign up for bowling. PE 1300. It's dope and still has space.




Haven't taken it, but in general when this happens the prof surveys the class for times that work for everyone.




I've TA'ed for the class before. There were usually recitations 3-4 days of the week (1-2 different times in the afternoon) usually split into 2 groups meant for 'different audiences'. Half the recitations will be for 'engineers' and the other half for 'architects', although the content is very similar.

&#x200B;

Although I guess there are less days for recitation this time (maybe less TAs)?

&#x200B;

Most likely the unscheduled section will be a Wednesday. It used to be Tues, Wed, Thurs




This has been my favorite class at Cornell. It is so unlike anything you will have most likely touched before. Highly recommend. Also did not think workload was too bad. Took it at the same time as MATH 1920.




Fair warning: i had a friend take this class because it seemed interesting. Indeed, it is an interesting course, but it is a lot of work. She spent many late nights in the computer labs since some of her group members weren't pulling enough weight. She also took it while taking Chem 2090, so I wouldn't worry too much about that.




I am pretty sure your future dues is just the tuition for one semester without any grants or financial aid added in. Once they add the grant to your account and it gets applied to the tuition then you will only have to pay the $15k. I may be wrong though.




it says that for me too




Please add a TL;DR




A possible "tl;dr" for each paragraph:

1. rising junior ECE, don't really like anymore
2. my interests changed
3. liked AEP 1200 (intro to nanoscience and nanoengineering)
4. didn't like intro ECE, but enjoyed intro CS
5. lost interest/motivation --> grades went from A's to B's
6. parents mad about B's
7. want to get into good grad school despite lots of B's
8. see paragraphs 5&7
9. I like physics --> maybe I should switch to AEP
10. I like CS but maybe less than AEP
11. in retrospect, should've done AEP+cs minor
12. parents won't let me switch and are not being reasonable because they don't think AEP/CS aren't "traditional" eng degrees and are very hung up on "traditional engineering"
13. see paragraph 12
14. see paragraph 12
15. Anyway I must finish ECE but can add other major/minor
16. Could do ECE+AEP but would be hard
17. Could do ECE+physics minor but wouldn't be enough physics
18. Could do ECE+CS, and at least get some physics through ECE classes
19. \-
20. grad school
21. help?




Not gonna lie only made it halfway through that and read the TLDR in the comments, but if you have liked 2110 I would recommend going with a CS major or at least a minor. I’ve taken quite a few ECE classes and a lot more CS. An upper level CS course feels a lot like applied 2110, so I think you’d enjoy those classes a lot more than ECE. 

To address your parents not considering computer science real engineering, I think you can/should push back on that. There are literally thousands of areas of research that are booming under computer science, whether it’s ML, compilers, distributed systems, etc. Not only is it thriving in academia, but there are endless opportunities in industry for software engineers and that will continue to be the case. Just because you’re not building something physical, does not make it engineering. I’m working this summer at a very, very large cloud provider. The amount of engineering that goes into managing the hardware is mind boggling.

Lastly, don’t make this an existential crisis about your entire career and life. Even if you stick with ece you can be a software engineer without a CS degree. Or spend one year getting an MBA and then pretty much any industry job—technical or not—will be on the table. 

P.S. B’s shouldn’t be your goal, but 3 years from now they will have no impact on your career. 

TLDR: CS is engineering. You’d probably enjoy that better than ECE. If you do stick with ECE, you can get a job in software engineering.




*Sorry in advance for the long answer, but honestly you can't really complain all things considered.*   
Hi, so I'm a just graduated AEP major/CS minor, which is what you say you want to be. Let me try and address your points and give you advice which I think will be helpful for you.   
First off, you are not giving your parents enough credit. They are actually almost entirely right. I mean, not in the respect that they are telling you what to major in or not, you should be allowed to make your own decisions - although there is some argument that if they are paying for it, they should have some say, etc. At any rate, their assessment of AEP and CS as "non-engineering" majors is entirely correct. Your disconnect with their perspective comes from the fact that you are looking at these majors from the perspective of coursework, whereas your parents are looking at them from an employment perspective. The fact is, an AEP or CS degree is not enough to do interesting work in physics, engineering, or (non-programming) computer science in almost every case. This is why your parents are saying these aren't engineering majors. Any ECE can go straight into an ECE job; for an AEP major to go into physics it usually requires grad school, and 99% of CS majors are not getting ML jobs with just a BS.   
 You seem to have bought into the AEP marketing about "engineering + physics" or whatever. AEP is just a harder physics major (because you have no option to outside concentrate), that is really all it is. The two AEP ENGRIs are by far the most interesting and applied classes in the minor, OTHER THAN CIRCUITS (the equivalent of ECE 2100+2300 combined into one class) which you apparently are not a big fan of. Everything else is just the equivalent of the corresponding physics course, which is why we in AEP sometimes say people were "baited" by the ENGRIs into joining AEP. Also, CS 2110 is indeed easier than an average ECE class, and is not all that indicative of whether you will enjoy further CS classes. A CS degree is worth less than an engineering degree - Google is saying they want to start hiring programmers with no CS degrees, but you don't see anyone saying the same thing about jobs that require an ECE degree. I actually agree with your parents almost entirely in their assessment of the situation, except that a physics degree is actually pretty useful if you want to work on wall st. But I'm not getting the vibe that you do, so it's kind of a moot point.  
If you really want to switch to a different area of study, I think you would have a much better time if you were able to lay out a comprehensive life plan (that doesn't include graduate school) and provides similar results to an ECE job, and show your parents that this is feasible. If you have not tried this already, it might be worth doing so, and I feel you need to show them that you understand their perspective, even though this might be hard for you since they don't understand yours.   
  
However, my main advice to you is to stay in ECE, stay away from the circuits side, and go to grad school in a field of ECE that's more similar to physics or CS, like photonics or ML or whatever it is you decide you are interested in. You are already considering this option. The fact of the matter is that your grades matter very little for grad school relative to other factors. No one gives a shit about minors either - except that a CS minor will be enough for you to get a job in CS, but you could probably do this with just an ECE degree anyways. What is most important is to have a good research profile. If you have done good research here, and you have one or two Bs, you can still get into MIT, but bear in mind that MIT might not even be the best choice for what you want to do. In graduate school, it is way more important to pick a good advisor than a prestigious school - this is what will define your career from that point forward. Take some more ECE courses, in fields like quantum and nanoscience, and decide what you want to do in grad school. Then apply yourself to it.  
To your final point about not wanting to take ECE quantum, you can always take e.g. PHYS 3316 or AEP 3610. But I fail to see how your interest in nanoscience and applied physics meshes with your distaste for ECE quantum owing to its more applied nature.   
At any rate, here's what you should do. Now, talk to your parents and see if you can come to an understanding, and try to keep their points in mind. Also, independently look up and research different fields you are really interested in - teach yourself about them, look into the work being done currently (sites like arxiv.org will be helpful for this). For example, you might be really interested in quantum physics, but the currently active fields within quantum physics are stuff like quantum information, quantum optics, quantum sensing, etc. This is an example of a highly profitable subfield within ECE that combines application and theory to a strong extent, and there are many more like it. Before the school year starts, have a strong idea of what you want to study going forward, and take ECE/CS/PHYS/AEP courses in those areas of study. Try and find work with an advisor in that field. Apply to graduate schools - and here you can apply to grad schools in e.g. applied physics, which will want you to take these ugrad physics courses anyways (although I had a couple of grad ECE students in my ugrad AEP courses). But I think the main point of staying within ECE is actually correct from your parents. You think AEP is the perfect major for you, but it's actually ECE, you just hate circuits. Plus you're two years in, and the field is broad enough for you to explore your interests within it. Just make sure to steer yourself more toward courses in ECE that interest you.  
**TL;DR: I literally did AEP/CS minor, just graduated; your parents are way more right than you think; AEP is probably not the major for you, ECE probably still is and even if I'm wrong it's likely too late already and won't matter once you hit grad school; take the CS/AEP/ECE/whatever courses that interest you and apply to grad school; make sure you try to understand your parents' fairly valid perspective and talk it out with them, even though they haven't been particularly considerate of you; get a head start NOW on deciding what specifically you do like, and try and do research in that field starting this fall so you can actually get into a good grad school.**




Only commenting on the grad school part:
1) Grades are important but do not stress about having B's- that is completely OK even for top tier graduate programs. 
2) You can choose to do grad school in a different program from your undergraduate degree esp. if you have found a better fit for your interests

It sounds like you've done a lot of self-reflection on what motivates you and your goals and desires which puts you ahead of many people going for grad school. If you know you're going to apply for graduate school I would try your hardest to maintain good grades and find research opportunities in the area that you actually want to continue in. You've got this my dude.




> my situation is incredibly convoluted

Don’t you mean “convolved?”

On a more serious note - and as someone who recently graduated from AEP - I think your parents’ concerns about AEP as you describe them are dead wrong. It’s definitely an engineering degree and maybe more importantly has great placement for grad school across engineering. If you’re set on going to grad school but don’t know what you want to specialize in beyond engineering, I’m not sure there’s a better major than AEP. 

Obviously you’ve already tried to convince your parents, but if you haven’t shown them placement stats or talked to the AEP academic head to ask them about your parents’ concerns, that might be worthwhile.




Dude. I feel like AEP is *the most* “engineering” major you can take. From the sounds of it, it seems like your parents were immigrants, so the prestige of “engineering” may be financially-motivated. CS majors make the most money out of college, and AEP majors tend to do whatever the fuck they want within engineering and beyond. A large number go to grad school, a large number go into various engineering positions, and a good amount go into finance. AEP is like the rest of engineering (at least the ones that count) all combined together plus a lot more. Its arguable that some AEP majors are better at ECE than the average ECE major (just take a look at their *required* circuits lab). AEP is hardly a “physics major in engineering”. Its more like a “engineering major” that happens to have physics because... well physics is kinda fucking important to be any kind of engineer. 

Also, AEP majors have a ton of concentration requirements that usually leads to them getting a minor in something more focused within engineering (like aerospace or ECE). This might be an option for you (AEP with a concentration in ECE). This would arguably lead to more possible jobs once you graduate.

Physics minor is also a viable option. You have the freedom to take whatever 3000 level classes you want. You also can avoid taking annoying lab courses. If you want as broad an education as possible within Physics, you could just take the core requirements; they cover the fundamentals for pretty much everything you need in grad school (3316, 3317, 3318, 3327, and stat mech). They also don’t require the MathPhys classes although they do help, so since you seemed interested in those, you could put those towards the minor, but wouldn’t be boned if you had to skip them for the sake of your schedule. I personally really enjoyed both 3318 and 3327, probably more than any other class at Cornell (except maybe CS 3110).




Uhh, I'm not familiar with this specific course but almost all courses let you sign up regardless of prereqs, most professors don't care if you don't have prereqs as long as you could handle the topics, so don't worry too much about prereqs if the course aren't too related.

As for full course, to can search the course on student center and click on it to see the enrollment numbers to see if it's full, I'm sure you can add it during add/drop so don't panic yet.




I use Mint! It's p good and worth. I used to use T-Mobile prepaid no data, but found Mint's 3GB yearly more worth the price and data. Ofc it depends on how much data you use normally.

Google Fi is good, but more worth for ppl who travel a lot or use a lot of data.




I would do Google Fi before I did Mint.  But that's a personal preference.




Most of these run on t-mobile towers so it's pretty similar service/network as t-m, which is pretty bad on North campus (I had no service in my room in Clara Dickson Hall) but it really depends on where you are on campus, some spots are fine some aren't.




Mint is good, I've had no problems with it. Played my fair share of PoGo on it before quitting.




I used Mint before and it sucked :((
The service and the internet were awful, but it might had been where I was. I wasn’t at Cornell.




I believe Cornell gives you the loan as financial aid or if you request the student contribution as a loan. Then you should get an email with directions to help you sign your promissory note and review the loan conditions/repayment




I thought it was super fun! I really enjoyed it and learned a good amount.




Have not taken it myself, but have heard very good things about it from my friends who have!




What's up, I was at AX as well this weekend :)

To be honest, its hard to find time at Cornell to leave Ithaca, even for a weekend. The only convention we could really feasibly go to is AnimeNYC, which is in October. Unfortunately just based on the culture at Cornell, the weekend is mostly time to catch up on work from the week. I know of a friend who went her freshman year but you'll be hard pressed to find people who are willing to travel 9 hours round trip for a weekend at a convention while also missing time to catch up on homework.




I know folks who attend, table, etc. at cons like animeNYC and anime Boston so it's definitely a thing. Mostly seniors and freshmen though. There are a lot of weebs on campus so odds are you can find a friend! I'm considering going to some this year so lmk if you want to figure something out.




Hey there! If you’re interested, you can join the anime club here at cornell - some of our members go to Anime Boston (spring) and the Anime expo (fall) in NYC, which are the only cons really close to Ithaca. IIRC, Ithaca College has a small con too in the spring, but it’s not anime focused.




I know there's a convention in Rochester which is closer to Ithaca than NYC. Not that many people seem to put the effort into going out of town to conventions but I know a few lol. Heck one of my friends went to one in Canada. Definitely hit up the anime club if you're looking for people to go with to one or just trying to find some fun people. I haven't gone to any this past year but I have gone to a few 1 time US showings of anime films getting a showing at the Ithaca mall, it could be a nice time to bring some people along to an event like that.




I took the class first semester freshman year, as a beginner who had never taken any kind of martial arts class before. I really enjoyed it! The class was once a week for 2 hours, and the professor was funny and a good teacher.

There was honestly a mix of people from different years, and while the class was mostly male, I had a solid group of six-ish girls (two who I'm still good friends with!) The class starts off with mostly learning moves but elevates to some mild sparring. Hope this helps!




It's a fun class, and very beginner friendly. The instructor gives opportunities to join the TKD club at school and pass belt tests if you want.




it’s working now for me! maybe they fixed it?




Yeah, I have tried multiple times.  I asked my student advisor and during web sessions about Coursegrab and they all say to wait it out since they're revamping the whole website.

Wait, try this app ([https://coursicle.app.link/vIEE7SEmaY](https://coursicle.app.link/vIEE7SEmaY))  

It only lets you put in one class though but notified by notification on your phone when you download the free app.




Not sure about 2310 - you can ask an advisor. But you can (and I recommend doing) 2940 (engineering Lin alg) to fulfill the requirement.




It's fine rigor wise, there's a lot of gaps so sadlyfe there, best of luck this year.




I'm not the hardest workers among my friends so 5 courses (including FWS) might be one too many for me. Especially since you're an incoming freshman that might need to adjust for Cornell's rigor and college life in general, I think 4 courses plus a PE is perfectly fine too. I have a lot of friends that take close to or over 20 credits and end up having to drop some because they have too much work or their classes are difficult. It might be different in your case since it looks like you're taking intro classes, but don't feel ashamed to drop a class if you feel the need to.




get rid of Math 1110 and take Math 1106 (Calc for Life Sciences). Math 1106 is a lot easier. If you need 2 semesters of math then take some sort of statistics class (like ILR stats or something).

&#x200B;

Move your Chem Lab to any other day than Friday, DO NOT TAKE FRIDAY LAB

&#x200B;

Also, try to get your FWS in there or some writing class if you didn't get out of them with AP credit. This may sound odd but you should try and put at least one class in your schedule that interests you and since you're just starting out you have to get all your pre-reqs out of the way that doesn't leave much room, PLUS you have to remember to get your CALS requirements done on top of everything. Make the FWS something that interests you (Ones in the Psych dept are easier, stray from any in the ENGL department).




[deleted]




I haven’t taken 1780 yet, but this looks perfectly fine. I would recommend condensing your schedule if possible though. You have classes all day when you don’t have to. A similar schedule led me to skip way more classes than I should have. It’s super easy to say “yeah... I’ll just run back to my dorm and take a quick nap”.




can't comment on your schedule but we're taking the same biog 1500 lab! see you there!




Looks like a manageable schedule! However I would reconsider the timing of some of the classes, like your math class and chem lab if possible, trust me when you want to get out of classes earlier on Fridays




Took it freshman year — we did laps, core exercises (planks, side planks), running up the stairs of schoekolff (cant spell, yike) bleachers 

It was ok not v exciting




Yep




For future reference:

https://www.engineering.cornell.edu/students/undergraduate-students/curriculum/undergraduate-requirements/liberal-studies




You do not sign up during preenroll. You take the placement exam during orientation and then get a registration code you can use during Add/Drop.

You may choose to leave the time slot open during preenroll, or you may choose to sign up for a class that you're prepared to drop if you do place into the heritage class. That choice is yours.

Also it's pretty easy to guess what you'll be placed into. If you can read and write a fair bit already, especially if you've taken any Chinese classes in the past, you'll likely end up in either 1110 or 2209. 1110 is spring only, so you don't even need to worry about scheduling around that. On the other hand, if you basically can't read or write at all (most students), expect 1109.




iirc, you won't be able to enroll in the heritage class until you get a code during your placement test. So don't enroll but make sure to save the spot in your schedule until add/drop




https://asianstudies.cornell.edu/placement




I'm in the same situation as you and idk what to do either. I emailed asain studies dept but they haven't replied. Please let me know if you figure this out.




I would leave it be. 1116 is a tough course, and you might want to leave some extra time your first semester to make friends and actually have time to talk to people. You don’t need to max out all of your credit hours.




As someone who took 18 credits first semester and nearly died, I’d recommend against adding any more classes. As someone else stated, which I can attest to personally, 1116 is really difficult and time consuming, and multi isn’t a walk in the park either. It’s a pretty big adjustment from high school to college, so don’t feel bad if you’re not as loaded up as other kids. You can always take more courses later on but I think it’s best to start off without a full schedule.




Maybe add like oceanography or something else easy, but that looks fine to me.




18 for your first semester is a hard upper limit, not a target.




Phys 1116 can be really tough, especially if you're not already super comfortable with vector calc (essentially math 1920). Even tho cs 1110 is pretty chill, the projects can still take up some time. As a prospective physics major, you being able to devote a lot of time to 1116 will help you gain confidence and feel more prepared for future courses.




regardless if they count towards a specific required class, you can count them towards the 120 credits you need to graduate which will allow you to take less classes overall




If you are in e.g. CoE, they do count toward your college requirements so they let you graduate earlier, double major/minor, take classes you're more interested in like grad classes etc. If you're in CAS nah.




This is highly dependent on major and college, but there are some that count for major requirements (or prereqs), such as AP CS for the math major. In other cases, they allow you to take higher level classes sooner, since without AP Calc, I'd have to take 1-2 Calc classes before starting linear algebra.

Depending on the college, they may help you with graduation requirements like your FWS or liberal studies for engineers. Arts and sciences is more strict on using credit for requirements.




Need more details on your major/future goals (pre Med? Pre vet?), but I can say 1350 is harder than 1440. Both classes are useful for pre health students tho, and many students take both.




2/10 schedule, your day should NOT be starting at 7AM. What have all of us told you freshmen about doing stuff before 10?




Bewildering flex




Might want to back it off a bit. A lot of people don’t realize how demanding doubling in CS and AEP while minoring in MechE can be




Booooooo. Failed humor.




Lame




portable fans... :-/




make friends who live in west campus dorms (not Gothics though) and have sleepovers in the air conditioned rooms. 

&#x200B;

2 box fans pointed at me with the windows open on non-humid nights worked fine for me




This is probably a messy option, but I used to wet a towel and put it over me while I slept because I couldn’t stand the heat. 😂😂




if an AC window unit isn't allowed/doesn't work for whatever reason, then fans plus a dehumidifier will go a long way.




I was under the impression that you get placed into BIOG 2990 once you get a research position by contacting professors (assuming you want credit instead of pay/volunteer). 2990 isn’t a class.




You shouldn't enroll in biog2990 without first contacting a professor.  Enrolling in the research course doesn't mean you're going to be placed with a professor.  In fact, I don't think you can even sign up for it without prior consent from a research mentor.  

Reach out to a professor first and don't worry if its not before the end of pre enroll or add/drop.  You can add on a research course pretty much until the end of the semester.




You gotta get into a research position by reaching out to a professor first, then once you’re in you ask them to confirm you’re in their lab so you can enroll for BIOG 2990




I think this is a solid schedule. Don't feel like you need to rush/load up on coursework first sem. Lot of people will tell you that's a big mistake. Explore the campus, join student orgs, make friends, coming to college isn't just about class. That being said you could always add something easy and drop if necessary. The drop policy is very generous.




Looks good to me. If you want to add one more class and then drop it if it's too much you can do that.




No this is pretty balanced. You have time to get lunch everyday and solid time to go back to your dorm after classes and get yourself together for night studying and whatever other activities and meetings might be coming up. 

&#x200B;

Take HE 1115, it's a great class for learning how to transition into cornell and Prof Chen is supper nice.




I think it's a little light, you could definitely add an ENGRI or liberal studies course (maybe micro/macroecon?). But don't feel obligated to, it's your first semester.




You can check the distances of any buildings with [Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps/dir/Goldwin+Smith+Hall,+232+East+Ave,+Ithaca,+NY+14850/Malott+Hall,+Tower+Road,+Ithaca,+NY/@42.4484092,-76.4829657,18z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m14!4m13!1m5!1m1!1s0x89d0818a12d45b8f:0xc7955445a8395783!2m2!1d-76.4835344!2d42.4490733!1m5!1m1!1s0x89d0818ac7dae3a5:0x85ff749bfef9a000!2m2!1d-76.4802083!2d42.4482224!3e2). For this case, you will definitely make it (0.2 miles).




Very doable. Just uphill through the pathway between Rockefeller and the Big Red Barn. Less than a 5 minute walk




Goldwin Smith is across the street from Rockefeller. Malott is right behind Rockefeller. If you sprint, you can make it in probably under 90 seconds.




Unless its north campus to/from engineering quad or snee all walks are pretty manageable




Oh yeah that’s very quick walk. The 15 mins allotted is almost always enough for any walk on campus besides vet school even if it doesn’t seem like if. Last semester i had classes where i had to walk from Hollister (close to collegetown, on engineering quad) to the ag quad, and it was fine




from GSW to Malott is not a problem at all. You can also be lazy and hop on the TCAT from the Goldwin Smith stop and get off at Kennedy.

&#x200B;

A shortcut is to go into the alley next to rockefeller and it brings you past the big red barn out into the parking lot thats in front of malott




[deleted]




2110, 4320 (some sys design questions), 2300 surprisingly for database questions, 4410 concurrency but realistically can be facilitated by 4320 because all questions I’ve gotten were r/w locks. 3152 for project to discuss (although a decent 3110 one can also be a point of discussion) and working in diverse teams (designers and programmers).

5150 didn’t really help me personally and 5152 taught me more about git and working with existing codebases. So I’d recommend 5152 as a fun one too.

EDIT: the cs classes I did for reference:

2110, 3110, 4320, 4154, 3152, 3300 (technically), 5150, 5152. The ones I mentioned are the ones I took/would take if I could. I’d probably swap out 3300 and 4154 for OS and possibly 3410. Knowing even a bit of low level is good but not entirely useful pertaining to lost careers in cs.




Not an alum but its widely acknowledged that 2110 and 4820 get you jobs, and literally no other class is useful once you land a general SWE gig. 

If you want to do something actually interesting like ML or CV, any position in that field that’s actually worth its salt won’t hire an undergrad.




The masters programs here can be as easy/hard as you make them. It depends on what your purpose is, some people just want an extended OPT.




I have some friends doing M.Engs in other engineering fields. Usually they take 4000/5000 level courses as available. Course choice definitely still depends on personal interest.




Hey could I ask you what your gpa was getting into Cornell?? I’m wondering what my stats should be like! I’m applying prob next year!!




I'm planning to do a double major in Mathematics and cs btw. I know that this is only 15 credits (FWS, 7pm REC for cs 2112 and PE class not pictured), but I'm uneasy about whether this will be manageable bc of the cs 2112 workload.




I would say this is fine, but if you end up dropping to 2110 feel free to add another class in that case. Sucks that 2213 lecture is at 9AM




19 credits including PE = 18 credits not counting PE




Your advisor can override the maximum credit limit.




I don't think you need to worry about the max credit limit. I took 23 credits including PE my first semester and my advisor didn't do anything. Even when I showed him the 20+ credit courses that I wanted to take the next semester he only asked me if I was sure I could manage it.




Is it doable? Yeah, of course. It's not an outrageously difficult schedule, you don't even have a math class ffs (maybe you should?). There are definitely people at Cornell who can take all these and more and get As in everything. The problem is knowing whether or not you're one of these people before you take your first class here.  
A word of advice. There are a couple of people every year who come in as CS and premed. Basically none of them come out as both. If you really want to do grad school (by which I assume you mean med school) you might want to commit to that option now, because what is a CS degree really going to do for you on top of that? Unless your plan is to work in CS for a few years to accrue the money to pay off student loans and then go to med school, in which case why not just stay in CS? I would think carefully about whether you really want to go down this path.




Dont know where you heard that. 1110/1120/1920 is required to affiliate to CS. 2940 is way more useful, and I would strongly recommend you take some form of LinAlg before you graduate, but 1920 is definitely my recommendation for your first math course

1920/2930/2940 are the underclassmen engineering math courses but can be taken completely out of order. Each will have tiny aspects of the other mentioned, but they will be treated like you haven’t learned it yet. So freshmen can and will be in those courses, its just that a CS prospective should take 1920 first.




I took the arts Lin Alg 2210, first semester, and I’d say 2940 is a better idea. My friends in 2940 had a much better time.




A lighter schedule is better for your first semester. Don't take 2150 unless you're absolutely confident with chem. Honors classes here don't really mean the same thing they did in high school.




Between these two, I would go with the first one. Frankly I'm not sure why 2150 is necessary for a premed, but if that's what you wanna do go ahead. The second one is pretty rough, 2150 + 2230 (which is overkill for a non-math major) is a lot for a first semester frosh. Try to stick to one honors course per semester.   
That being said, I did something similar to this during my first year. The key when deciding between majors is to make sure that everything you take can be counted for some college or major requirement, in both majors, so you never take a course that turns out to be a waste of time. I'm not an expert on CAS or premed requirements, but just make sure you are doing this (and this is another reason not to take 2230).




Go with the first one - I’m assuming you’re confident in Chem, and while Chem 2150 is a tough class, that schedule is manageable. 

Second schedule is death.




Are you also considering a math major...? If not, I would recommend against 2230.




Do the first one. Never do labs on a Friday if you don't have to!! Also, don't take Chem 2150 if you haven't taken Orgo 2 yet. Orgo Lab is awful to start but it basically goes hand and hand with CHEM 3580. That first schedule also gives you time to always have lunch which is crucial to surviving the days at cornell.

&#x200B;

As for PE classes just do basic ones during the week so you don't have to worry about them interfering with anything else. A lot of my friends took swedish massage or something that was held indoors since Ithaca weather is never predictable.




Don't you have like 5 days left?




Not terrible but you are going to hate trying to get from Kennedy to the golf course in 15 minutes




its a bit heavy but you always have the option to drop




Yes. 18cr your first semester at Cornell is not at all recommended. Get rid of Econ because you probably won't need it unless you plan on minoring in Econ or AEM, otherwise keep it.  Like others said, getting from Kennedy to the Golf Center is almost impossible unless you sprint the whole way there and leave the econ class early.

&#x200B;

1 class on friday is awesome, but maybe change things around so your thursdays aren't that brutal with 6 classes. Cornell isn't like HS where you can take 9 classes in one day and be fine, sometimes even 2 lectures are exhausting.




Oof, I'm taking micro too but I'm doing TR




Rising food science sophomore here! I think for starters, this is an ok schedule, but would definitely recommend dropping econ for now as it is your first semester getting adjusted (if you’re aiming for the dyson minor there is plenty of time to complete it). 

Econ and chem seem to be the more difficult side of classes for your schedule, as bioee1610 is pretty straightforward memorization and the fdsc class is an easy A. FWS can vary depending but I took ENGL for both of mine and did fine. 

If you have any questions feel free to PM me!




Don't worry, you can send your AP scores at any time before you graduate basically. Just wait until like September and if they're not up you probably forgot.




You can leave cs for second semester and grab an FWS or liberal studies course




Thoughts: drop the ENGRI, add an FWS. 9AM classes = bad, FWS 1st sem = good (cuz you get to meet other frosh). At the very least pick an ENGRI that's not at 9AM




Is there a specific reason you chose the MechE engri? There are other engri's that a lot of ECEs take




1110 is much better in the fall. If you got a 5 on AP and can skip one of your FWSes, then I would just drop the ENGRI.




Schedule: No big issues here. It’s on the higher side of courseloads, but looks manageable.

Q1: I’ve heard of a lot of people skipping breakfast, but idk about any other meal. I personally changed my schedule to be able to eat 3 meals a day every day, 2 of which in a dining hall. Pretty sure I’m in the minority.

Q2: Haven’t had bathroom problems, but this could depend on your dorm and when your roomate(s) / suitemate(s) have classes. 

Q3: Most people do. The communal fridge would have worked for me though, even when I make breakfast myself every day. Again, depends on your dorm. Nobody really cooked in my dorm lol. Cornell’s vendor is really expensive though, so buying a fridge is often better. 

Q4: No need, almost everyone walks and gets around without issue.




Your schedule looks packed compared to the average student, but I've seen worse so it's fine.

1. Yes.
2. Depends on the dorm, but I wouldn't say it's something you should worry about.
3. Personal preference. Obviously, having your own has its advantages (people can't steal your food), but you're paying for it.
4. I would not. Most people use the buses (they're free for freshmen after all).




Ok, so in order:  
1. Yes, it is normal to have a lot of classes bunched up near lunch if you avoid morning/evening classes. Handle this how you see best, I would maybe change the AEW time.   
2. No comment on taekwondo, seems interesting though. One of my high school teachers recommended that all students should try dance in college, so that's what I took my first semester.  
3. The limit for CoE frosh is 23 credits.  
4. When I was a first semester frosh, I would get a bagel at RPCC for breakfast ($.99) when I felt like it, eat lunch at okenshields, and dinner on north. There are definitely people who do what you said, but I like having time to eat lunch so I scheduled my courses so I would have time for a lunch break. For me that meant not ending before 4 any day of the week, except Fridays when I ended at 2.  
5. I've never had a big issue with waiting for the BR.  
6. Communal fridge is ok, but it's nice to have a minifridge and they're pretty cheap. Make sure to buy them at the start-of-year dump 'n run sale, rather than the stupid rental Cornell says to do, because the price is roughly $35 as opposed to like $150+ that Cornell charges.  
7. No, the shuttle bus is plenty and is not even necessary in many cases. You def don't need alternative transportation.




I’m a junior now and had the transfer option as well. They aren’t too strict (like you can take a course during the summer before you start your sophomore fall semester at cornell), but be sure to stay up to date with the various emails/notifications they send out. You can always call CALS to ask about courses too.

Pm me if you have more questions, because I know for me I felt like the process was unmonitored and was afraid of missing a requirement.




pm if you have questions- im entering CALS in the fall as a transfer option!




Make sure to check the classes you sign up for meet the requirements. If they don’t you will get rejected even if you have the grades ( I know a few people who had TO but got rejected due to not taking a course that met the requirements).




Are you talking about psp or the summer days thing?




We just got word that the 11:15 will be in Bailey. We should not fill up unless the registrar forgets to adjust the caps by Monday (I tried to confirm this last Tuesday, but everyone was on vacation).

The only problem will be getting the section you want.




Unless you have an extremely compelling reason, do not take 9AMs. Full stop.




100% guarantee you will not be happy about the 8 &9 am discussions so would really recommend trying to grab later time slots if at all possible




Here are some thoughts: 

You might have to leave your PE early or be late to 1112 lab, since it's about a 15 min walk from Helen Newman to Rockefeller. I don't know about 1112 labs specifically, but being late to lab generally puts you at a disadvantage for hearing instructions/setting up/finishing the lab on time and policy for being late varies by instructor. For PEs, as well, sometimes putting away equipment, etc puts you past the end of class. Also, I always found it nice to have a bit of time to prepare before labs, going over the procedure, making sure I had finished the write-up/pre-lab, etc rather than feeling rushed sprinting from another class. If you cannot switch the times, you can try it out during add/drop and then see if it is doable for you. 

8 am discussion may get tough later in the semester. North campus to to Phillips is also a bit of a trek (\~20 min walking) so take the bus if possible. Many math courses also give short quizzes at the beginning of the discussion sections (some courses, it varies by course and maybe even TA), so you're out of luck if you're late (happened to me many times in 9:05 1920 discussion). Again, see the syllabus as well and try it out and see if it is doable, this varies on the person. 

Other than that, the actual classes you're taking look pretty standard for first semester engineering. You will be busy for sure, but it doesn't seem excessive and is similar to what I did first semester. Definitely feel free to switch your schedule if the times/locations/TAs don't work for you during add/drop. Good luck!




Isn't MATH 1910 a prereq for PHYS 1112?




Looks fine/average




Looks like a completely standard freshman fall. You're going to have a great time, enjoy.




Drop the 8/9AMs. Please.   
Also, if you haven't taken calculus before, you will quite possibly have a bad time taking 1112 and 1910 together. Would advise against it, swap out for CHEM 2090 or CS 1110 or something along those lines.




Yep this looks good, with your FWS you'll have 4 full classes + PE which is what most freshmen take fall semester.




8AM discussion in Phillips is gonna be a nightmare assuming you're living on North. Try to cut that.




This plus a FWS is a pretty average and manageable frosh engineering schedule. I would recommend making that 8am much later, its a lot harder than you think to physically make it to that class.




Looks good! You might not be happy with the 8am ones, though.




Physics lab before prelims? Move lab to Friday evening if possible?




Trust me, you don’t need 1910 as a pre req for 1112, but it literally does nothing to hurt you to take it second semester.  If you don’t have credit for chem 2090 and it fits, switch it out.  There’s really no reason not to, and it’ll pay dividends to start off on the best possible footing.




Btw — what program did you use to generate this format for the schedule?




19 credits including FWS is a lot




That’s very vague of a question. Depends how much aid you get, what your spending habits normally are, and how conservatively you are willing to live.

All in all I found it fine with no issues only having to work but TAing was actually fun so not a massive drawback. I will say that initially I thought i would be more hard pressed after seeing the result but when I actually arrived I was in a better position than anticipated.




for the year 2019-20, a person from india's cost of attendance at cornell is 81k (i know because i am one). if you apply with aid, cornell will cover your entire "need" which can only be decided on the basis of your financials. for example, according to their calculations, my family cannot contribute anything at all so i get 78.5k in aid and 2.5k i am supposed to earn through work study. my package covers even a winter allowance with which i can either fly home or stay in a sublet in Ithaca, while some other person's package may not provide that simply because their financial conditions would be better than mine. you should know, since Cornell is a need aware school, your chances of admission shall significantly decrease with increasing need, as cornell has to cover all need but it has limited aid for international students




[deleted]




[Send scores](https://lmgtfy.com/?s=b&q=how%20to%20send%20ap%20scores)   
There is no deadline as long as you send them before graduation. But I would do it ASAP.




That's normal lol
Labs are labs...? You do "experiments" and then analyze. Usually one experiment is 2-3 weeks long and does not completely correlate to what you're learning in class. Honestly they were the worst part of my semester last semester.




Physics classes have some of the highest hours-in-class to academic-credits ratio of any classes at Cornell. 7 hours a week for 4 credits is normal in the physics department and almost nowhere else.




In my opinion, it’d be better to CASE out of the class, especially if you got a 4 on the ap. The class didn’t really add to my understanding of physics and was really time consuming. I don’t have any advice regarding the exam itself, since I never took it, so sorry about that




I actually enjoyed the physics labs for 1112... sometimes labs would get cancelled, sometimes I'd leave early since I would finish faster. The labs help reinforce concepts. Discussion experience depends on who you get as TA. 
Overall, I really enjoy the organization of the physics department. Sometimes, it'll get annoying, but overall positive.




Franny's is pretty good. Definitely worth checking out that area if you're not an Archie or don't frequent the arts quad




damn that must be why my suitcase is so heavy




Lol neither is gonna really be “memorize these equations”. 3Blue1Brown’s videos are pretty heavily influenced by college lectures. Linear Algebra is pretty memorization heavy as far as math goes however; any freshman level linalg class is mostly learning a bunch of theorems to develop intuition. 

2230 is a pretty insane course. Its been called a senior level class for freshmen (which isn’t entirely accurate but gets the difficulty point across). If you think you’re up to it, you can always start off with 2230 and drop down if you think its too tough. Also keep in mind its harder to go from 2210 to 2230.

EDIT: Of course we know 3Blue1Brown. Big Daddy Strogatz was on his channel for crying out loud.




CS and Math double major here. Took 2112 and 2230 my freshman fall.

I came in with nothing but Calc BC experience and a passion for math. Hubbard taught 2230 my year and it was by far the most difficult class I took that semester for me. Calc does not remotely come close to preparing you for the level of rigor that 2230 expects. It frequently felt like everyone else in the class had more experience than me and was doing better than I was.

But I still loved 2230. It's a math class like no other, teaching content that you otherwise may not touch until senior year or even later. 

If that sounds like fun, try it out. You can always drop down to 2210 later.

One last thing. Unlike the difference between 2112 and 2110, Math 2210 is easier than 2230 but is still a very rigorous class with proofs and stuff. The math department offers like 4 or 5 different levels of lin alg targeted at different students, which allows them the luxury to provide a much more fine-grained difficulty difference between them.




Go to the Student Center, then click Academics. It will be listed as the only class that you are currently registered for (other than possibly CHEM 2090, if you're in engineering).




Yeah. I think you’d technically chose the option to make it a bunk bed




Where there's a will there's a way.




It’ll be a tight squeeze but yeah its possible.




I knew someone who fit their desk under it so yes




18 months ago I somehow got an e-mail from the current RHD in Risley letting me know that Risley Dining was replacing all its furniture, and the surplus furniture could be had for a song.  My partner and I spent a combined total of 12 semesters in Risley, and decided we couldn't let the opportunity pass us by.  So I rented a van, made a short trip, and came back with a table and six chairs for the cost of 70$.  They needed to be refinished badly, and we were busy, so they sat in a corner for a bit.  Finally sent them out in May, and they were delivered this week.  The table itself turns out to be mahogany, and, after troubleshooting the small issue of the table not being drilled for the base we were given and not being quite level, some measuring, leveling, drilling, and shimming was done and things came together last night.

We are going to get the chairs reupholstered in the future, but for now I couldn't be happier with the new dining set (and piece of Cornell history) to match the new house.




oh man, I lived in Ris for three years and this is bringing me back haha. that’s awesome!




You wanna game. That looks like a great gaming table




I loved living in ris and really envy that you got some of the dining furniture! Aaa mahogany. I couldn't determine the wood in person, but I'm so stoked to hear that it was mahogany




[deleted]




Also if your math and physics CASE exams clash, you can always get one rescheduled (most departments offer an alternate time)




looks good




Maybe a bit heavy but pretty good. Welcome!




Just play the java enabled games from the browser




Isnt it SOP for admin passwords to be required for downloading anything on public computers?




work like 120 hours at minimum wage real quick and buy yourself a nice rig and then quit

this summer is probably the best time to build for a while

edit: downvoted for suggesting someone make ~$1,200 dollars during summer downtime to build a gaming pc, nice!




Sad, in January/ Febuary I was able to download stuff ez with friends... guess times have changed




What is your question exactly?




I'm doing the global health minor and I'm on the Tanzania trip right now




How bout a harry potter movie marathonnnn




I’m in.




I'm up for this!




I'm down




Lowkey are there book clubs in general...preferably ya fantasy?




[deleted]




So how is it going to be?




Just let me stretch my legs first




Yeah I just have tuition. And so it begins.




Yep. Due in early August iirc




Yup lol




The best insurance you can get in these parts is a gym membership, defend your property.




You should check if your credit card offers purchase protection. I have a Citi card and it offers 1 year accidental protection and 2 years of additional warranty. When I cracked the back glass of my iPhone the process of filling out a claim and getting reimbursed was fairly straightforward. I know Amex, Wells Fargo, and Chase offer similar protections. 

Unless you want accidental damage coverage past the 1st year, credit card is the way to go.




In the housing assignment email cornell recommended [https://www.collegestudentinsurance.com/](https://www.collegestudentinsurance.com/) looks like a decent deal at a 75$ yearly premium low deductible etc. I'm matriculating this fall so haven't tried it myself yet though




If you're insuring for damage, maybe add AppleCare when you buy the device




Use all your AP credits, and your schedule looks fine




I don't think there's ever such thing as "too light". You mention this, but there's a ton of adjustment during your first semester between moving in for the first time, meeting people, and joining clubs (if you're interested in a project team for example that's a significant chunk of work to account for. A lot of other clubs can take up your time too). As a second semester junior last semester, I took 13 credits and I was still crazy busy. Truthfully, you don't know how many credits/courses you can handle yet, so what you listed sounds totally good. If you find you're bored by that course load, definitely increase in future semesters!

Edit: as a side note, I highly recommend bowling! It's super chill and you can do your work there. I used to start my 1920 psets during bowling and out of good will, I'd bowl like 3-4 times per class.




Engri 1101 teaches some pretty useful algorithms. Sadly, you missed out on the greatest Franz Schalekamp teaching that course. Tbt FA17.




Assuming you place out of 2090, I think this is a fine schedule. If you want to add a low-workload liberal studies like CS 2850, that would be fine too. I would maybe recommend a different ENGRI - a CS one IS offered in fall (1620) and looks to be a good course. Other than that, the two AEP ENGRIs (1100 and 1200) are both related to ECE field material and considered very interesting, if the specific topics interest you I'd highly recommend those. Also be aware that those 8 credits from AP Bio can mostly only be used for advisor-approved electives, which are basically anything you want anyways, so they're of limited importance imo. But overall I think you're doing fine.




You won’t be bored with only four courses. If you somehow are, go for some stuff outside of classes. I took four in my first semester and was fine.




> Some people say to do fewer first semester of college because there is so much going on

They are correct. BUT, there's absolutely no downside in enrolling in 5 and then dropping if you feel like you're too busy to handle it all and have fun at the same time




AP credits are pretty useless in A&S (except for placement).




1. Yeah, that's correct 
2. Yes, I mean your 30 AP credits might help you place into higher level classes, but you still gotta take 100 credits in A&S




Nope just the ballot - in addition make sure that your choices don't clash with any enrolled classes on student center




iirc you just have to fill out the ballot. The student center stuff is added later, after the ballot results come out




You can be an out of house member of Ridley (the arts dorm) and use any of their shops, including their woodshop. It costs ~$100/year, but all materials, instruction and tools are provided




I think your best bet would be to ask a prof or someone with access to those.




[removed]




Look at 1110 exams from past years, except there is no inheritance (so the class question is easy) and nothing on invariants. Also, I do not expect you to draw call frames as that representation is not standardized.

http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs1110/2018fa/exams




If you know either python or java really well then you'll do fine. I also got a 4, but my actual coding skills for the exam were a bit rough, so I didn't pass it. Basically each question can be answered in either Python or Java.




So the cutoff for a 5 in Calc BC is around a 58%, which means you scored below a 58% to get a 4.

If your major doesn't depend on math at all, then take the credit. If you think that you might actually need this in the future, though, it wouldn't hurt to retake and brush up again. It's generally a good idea to strengthen your fundamentals before tackling other stuff.




Is calc highly relevant for your major? If not I'd just take the credit.




Claim it, and if the next math class is too hard then you can always drop it and retake Calc 2.




They change year to year and based on the grad student, so a current student couldn't tell you that. Also don't choose one just because it's easy. Even if it's "easy" you'll still hate it if you hate the material. Pick one you like (there are 200!) and go with it. Viewing and FWS as a GPA-booster (I'm not implying you do, I'm just throwing out a hypothetical) is kind of toxic and defeats learning for the sake of learning.




Easiest ones are the ones where you actually want to read the material for. I took one on the fall of the Roman Empire and it was one of my favorite classes from Freshman year.




That actually depends on your luck and the grad student/prof that is teaching the class. FWS classes “should” be a GPA booster (the majority of them are, but some of them aren’t).




Anything with film




In college, especially with regards to academics, the answer to “will my parents find out” is always going to be “no”




No




No, refocus and get back on track, good luck.




Most classes won't require anything explicitly. Just need a couple notebooks, pens, maybe a calculator, and of course a laptop. Get a decently comfortable backpack, good shoes and probably a pair of boots because of how much you'll be walking. As for dorms, it really depends on what you want to have with you. I moved in with basically nothing, but the bare minimum would probably be a fan, a hamper, sheets/pillows/blankets, and some form of storage.




Some of the dorms can get unbearably hot and stuffy. A fan is a lifesaver.




cornell has a pretty good list here: [https://living.cornell.edu/live/movingin/NewUndergrads/what-to-bring.cfm](https://living.cornell.edu/live/movingin/NewUndergrads/what-to-bring.cfm)




Don't bring things you aren't sure you'll need, there's mall and Walmart in Ithaca so you can grab those things if you need it later.

For me, all I brought was my laptop, bag, a notebook + pen + a calculator, a blanket, clothes, shower stuff, with Amazon and local mall you don't need to bring much at the start.




FANS! Brita/Water filter has always been a move, power strips (not extension cords), invest in a water bottle (s'well or hydroflask) becuase the weather is always unpredictable and can be very cold to very hot so you always want to have water or something to drink at a good temperature. LL Bean Boots were a life saver for the rain and snow. A mini deodarant to leave in your bag.




very important — make sure to purchase a jupiter notebook




You don't really cover series/sequences in 1920 at all, so not having the most familiarity with that isn't a big deal for the course. I placed out of 1910 and took 1920 my freshman fall and it was a really great decision. 

In terms of English, keep in mind that you can only get out of one freshman writing seminar even if you have two 5s. So if you have an extra spot, it may not be a bad idea to get your FWS done now.

As for Physics C, I never took that AP so I went through 1112. Even with a working knowledge, I'd take the credit; I had taken AP Physics 1 and I felt that was enough after taking that class too. Of course any of this is totally up to you, but usually getting out of an annoying prereq isnt a bad idea. You won't be behind in your work without taking PHYS 1112.




Take the credit unless you want to learn high school stuff with your tuition money




It makes things kinda complicated when you list 4 fairly different potential majors. In any event,  definitely take the 1910 credit and FWS credit, and file every major except AEP you should take 1112 credit too (AEPs should take 1116). Instead of using your credit to take Spanish,  I'd recommend taking an intro course in all the fields you're interested in to decide on your future major (but make sure they all count for smth); this is what I did as a frosh.




1920 is honestly not difficult at all. If you want to do AEP you’d better know series and expansions. Dont retake 1910 just self study the last few chapters




Yeah sure, at Helen Newmann? I have my own Yonex stuffs so we can share :D




Ya. I'd love to!




I'm down to play!




I'm down, pm me




I'd be down to! I play for fun too so I might suck but I'd still love to join




I'm down to play too!




Cornell store is pretty expensive, so I'd honestly buy stuff at a Walmart or something before coming. If you're driving to campus I'd even do it at home to avoid any crowds of people at the Target/Walmart in Ithaca




Definitely buy stuff beforehand, school supplies at Cornell are needlessly overpriced. Get an iClicker secondhand once you're at Cornell (if you need it) and buy all your paper and pencils at home.




also this isn’t great for notebooks and stuff but other like form stuff and some little school supplies can be found at the Dump n run sale which i highly recommend checking out




There’s a staples and Walmart and target within driving distance. Cornell store also has a supplies section but isn’t the cheapest. All depends how limited you are for space getting to Cornell. If you can find things for a good price at home and have plenty of room in your bags then by all means. Wouldn’t go too overboard though until you know your classes. Like I bought a lot of pads freshman year only to realise I’d be doing all my work and and notes on my laptop.




If you drive, then buy at home. If you're flying, Target isn't that far away and busses are free on weekends / all year for freshman.




Just bring a bag, a notebook and a pen, the rest can be bought at Target or Walmart or Amazon (the crowed isn't a problem, idk what these people are talking about, it's not Black Friday).




It's up to you tbh. Depends on how you like to organize and what classes you have. Certain classes require certain books that can't be found on the internet for free, so you buy them from the Cornell Store. Other supplies like notebooks and such, it's up to you. There's a Target and Walmart in Ithaca that'll probably serve your needs.




My friend didn't know that for 3 years. He paid a hundred something for ms office.... This is a good PSA




Not only can you get MS Office, but also windows 10 absolutely free, you just have to look around at everything that’s offered




Also small FYI on the google drive - you keep it after graduation. So that’s a nice perk to have.




Or, you could use libre office for free even without being a student... just saying




probably some sort of lab position




definitely are a lot of opportunities as a paid research assistant. i get emails like every day, sign up for the bio, premed and psych listservs if you haven’t already. 

the only issue i ran into looking for a gap year job was that a lot of them ask for a 2 year commitment.




medical scribe




I highly doubt it lol, but I would call housing to double check.




Is this satire




You could always loft the bed all the way up like a top bunk on a bunk bed and put your hammock stand underneath it. Or just like put your desk and dresser there and hammock wherever those would be.




A majority of the material for 6240 is sourced from the HCI research community which tends to be fairly practically oriented. The rest comes from cog/behavioral/org psych. I would say about 60% of content concerns the development and analyses of prototypes/interfaces/systems or has implications that would be directly applicable to industry. The other 40% focuses more on general principles discovered through observational and lab studies (e.g. how do people categorize information and how do they connect to possible technical affordances) which still have relevance to the kinds of things we make.

Students will be reading 4-6 academic papers a week, presenting academic papers a few times a term, and doing a final project. Most class time is spent discussing the work as a group (I will adjust the conversation based on whether the class composition is more research- or industry-track).    
Feel free to email me if you want to check out a previous syllabus and reading list.

If you are an undergrad: While I've opened 6240 to undergraduates, it is primarily intended to be a grad seminar. Expectations in terms of keeping up with reading, attending class, and participating in discussions are high. Past undergraduates have done very well in the class, but you may need to self-teach in places if you haven't had a lot of exposure to HCI in the INFO curriculum.




not sure if housing would approve but doesn't hurt to try. otherwise just switch keys at the beginning of the year lol




Email housing like what.




Housing will probably approve it.




Yes, I had the exact same situation except in Cascadilla. Just have everyone who is involved email housing and they will approve it.




They’ve had a lot of holiday sales (Christmas, Valentine’s Day, etc.) and seasonal sales (spring, fall). During those sales, they sometimes give out little scratch off cards that give you different amounts off.




Freshmen get coupons during O week




When I took it online 3 years ago there were, don’t know if it’s changed or not. Most of the test was fill in the blank where you had to know particular nuances and grammar rules, and reading comprehension. Some conjugation is necessary for figuring out who’s talking about what, and I would recommend looking up general rules for vosotros conjugation, but if you have a solid background otherwise, not knowing that probably won’t ruin your score.




I took it this year and no, they didn’t have it on mine




The rock climbing courses are great.




The ranking of PE courses I took:

1. Rock climbing - Definitely the best I’ve taken. Not only interesting and fun but they also make sure you really get to know everybody. You also can go whenever they have open hours and use their gear.

2. Downhill skiing - Took the intermediate course and it really helped me improve. Plus you have time to just mess around after the lessons. 

3. Soccer - Basically just got to play soccer twice a week.

4. Squash - Starts out with learning to hit the ball and then practicing hitting all class. Then every class you’d get like one 10 minute lesson and then just hit or play a match with someone. Although near the end it just turned into playing squash for an hour.

5. Fencing - Didn’t find this the most fun. Lots of footwork and repetitive training and then near the end you get to actually fence. It might just be the nature of it but still wasn’t the best.




Day Hiking was super chill and AWESOME!

 Only four sessions per semester so you don't even have to worry about a PE for two or three months. Plus you get to see all of Ithaca's great outdoors. Taughannock was amazing. I go back whenever I can!




Bowling




yoga was really fun




Recreational golf.  You literally just go play golf to get credit!  You even get to go whenever you want bc it’s not a regularly scheduled class.  The only thing is that you have to already know how to play




Archery and fencing were both pretty fun and didn’t require too much exercise




TKD was really fun. Ice skating is also pretty popular.




A cool one that I've wanted to take but never had time to fit in was riflery. The course fee is pretty expensive though.




I took recreational canoeing in the fall... 10/10 highly recommend. Class only meets 5 times, I think that’s pretty sublime.




the engineering sequence is highly recommended (even for those on a physics PhD track) because you learn the math in the exact order & depth that you'll use in your physics classes. Everyone I've known that did the honors math classes dropped them or regretted them.




1920 + 1116 -> 2930 + 2217 -> 2940 + 2218




If you’ve only taken BC you will most likely not/barely survive 2230. But the regular 
/honors arts sequence is more theoretical (thus more fun) so I would suggest it




Considering you’re not a math major I wouldn’t recommend taking 2230/40 at all unless you’re really into the material. Those classes grind people into the ground by themselves, and you have other major courses/requirements to worry about. If you really want to have more theory in your math, just take 2210/20 it’ll be a much more enjoyable experience. 
As far as I know it doesn’t matter for grad school, they look at the whole body of work and one or two classes at a 2000 level won’t make a difference, especially if they’re not explicitly in your major. As someone who came in as a math major and switched to physics, engineering math was much more my taste. But at the end of the day it’s your decision.




You do not need prior knowledge of linear algebra or multivariable calculus to succeed in 2230. Your problem solving ability matters infinitely more. You could take out 3-4 days in the summer to learn some linear algebra just so you're familiar with material prior to it being taught. Multivariable isn't emphasized until the second half of 2230 (after the in-class prelim) and is mainly just learning theorems and taking derivatives in higher dimensions. I should mention that the workload is very dependent on who the professor is.




I would definitely start in 1920. After 1920 you can turn take 2930 -> 2230 if you really want, what's important is just that you don't mess up your ordering with respect to the intro physics sequence.




Wtf I love Uris now




People are going to be loud af in the lounge/elevated area, fuck... 

The coffee and the new dividers are welcome changes though. 

I’ll also delay judgement on those chairs. Are they comfy?




Oh so you’re that girl taking pics earlier




I see no cocktails...





This new WeWork space looks dope




Holy shit I'm so jealous

Uris was the worst to study in back in the day. I always went to Olin because Uris never had plug points. Now Uris is so modern wtf this is amazing




Quick question, why's it called a cocktail lounge?




Doing the lord’s work thank you!




Tuition at work!




Wow it's like Upson's renovation 🎉




One of my friends took it. From my understanding it is graded pretty leniently since he didn’t turn in half the homeworks, missed a bunch of quizzes, and did decent on the exams and still got a decent grade. And he’s definitely not mathematically inclined but is a smart guy.




Took it last fall semester. If you have Harrison Chen, the guy is pretty horrible at teaching the material, so you'll end up having to learn all the concepts from the textbook....which is annoying. That being said, he grades EXTREMELY leniently (last year, the grade boundary for an A was 60%) so as long as you study on your own you'll be totally fine.




Hello Future Student,

First off, I am exceedingly disappointed in you for even thinking about non-infinite mathematics. You should be good enough at mathematics to think about it and count to infinity and back in your sleep. You should be having wet dreams about Cantor's diagonalization argument and fingering yourself to Chapter 7 of Baby Rudin. I expect all of my MATH 1105 students to have tongueblasted a combinatorialist at least once throughout the semester; if you want to take the class, then you should at least know how to give a rusty trombone to Wildberger himself. If you don't feel up to any of this and still want to browse the "finitary mathematics" category on Redtube, then I'm afraid the fine science of mathematics is not for you, and you should pick a different field like chemistry.

May yo black ass always keep it z+z^* ,

Liam McCockinmydickister




So as far as I know, you can practice at Lincoln hall for free any time. There are small soundproof booths with literally just a piano somewhere downstairs from the main entrance.  But to answer your question, there is a common room on the 6 side of Dickson that has the piano.  People use it a decent amount, and you can't use it during quiet hours, but from what I can tell it's convenient enough.




I don't remember when they were assigned my freshman year, but you can always meet with your advisor once you're on campus before add drop. I would give it your best shot for pre-enroll but don't be too worried about it. if you're in engineering by any chance u can pm me and I might be able to help.




I believe advisors are assigned in early August, so yeah, after freshman pre-enroll. If you were a (prospective) bio major you'd have a student advisor over the summer, but otherwise you'll have to talk to them before add/drop. You don't need to get everything in pre-enroll, and in all likelihood you won't - that's just how things go in such a massive school.




Just ask Reddit or FB for schedule, they're usually more helpful than advisors anyways.




If you are really worried about your schedule or have questions you can't find the answer to, you could try asking the DUS (director of undergraduate studies) of the relevant department.




I'm pretty sure it's by section? Iirc.
the other option is the fws gets chosen if it fits in your schedule, so you can just have your schedule be free for those specific sections.




Its meant for the elites




Hello Future Student,

First off, I am exceedingly disappointed in you for even thinking about not taking a class with a hard professor. You should be good enough at biological engineering to build an organic nanobot that cures cancer by aggressively penetrating each cancer cell. You should be having wet dreams about biopolymers and fingering yourself to the sight of a pharmaceutical drug inhibiting enzyme function. I expect all of my ENGRI 1337 students to have tongueblasted a biomedical engineer at least once throughout the semester; if you want to place out, then you should at least know how to give a rusty trombone to Ruttledge himself. If you don't feel up to any of this and still want to look up class notes for ENGRI 1337 on Redtube, then I'm afraid the fine science of biological engineering is not for you, and you should pick a different field like computer science.

May yo black ass always be catalyzed,

Liam McButtassinmyschlongister




Who teaches it? If it’s still John March he is super laid back and he’s a good lecturer, albeit disorganized




Engineers actually take 2090 as those in COE are required to. It’s not harder than 2070. In fact, 2070 may be slightly more theoretical.

Of course, if you have AP credit or wanna do the CASE and place out, just do that.




Take 2090, if engineering will let you.

Neither is easier than the other, but 2090 will be less hassle.




Neither. Just place out




CALS EnvEngs take 2070 not sure if COE EnvEngs do, I think Orgo is required so take 2070 if possible.




go straight to pchem, it'll be easier for you as an engineer




Hello Future Student,

First off, I am exceedingly disappointed in you for even thinking about taking the one credit course. You should be good enough at environmental science to solve the climate crisis in your sleep. You should be having wet dreams about solar power and fingering yourself to the sound of coal mines being shut down. I expect all of my ESS 2000 students to have tongueblasted a climate scientist at least once throughout the semester; if you want to place out, then you should at least know how to give a rusty trombone to Rachel Carson herself. If you don't feel up to any of this and still want to search up easy 1-credit courses on Fucktube, then I'm afraid the fine science of environmental science is not for you, and you should pick a different field like finance.

May yo black ass survive the rising seas,

Liam McPussinmyschlongister




yeah i took the 1 credit one, it's showing up to a guest lecture once a week and then answering some questions about the presentation via blackboard (canvas now i guess). there are a lot of interesting classes here so i'd honestly leave some room in your schedule




https://www.tcatbus.com/ride/where-to-buy/

Some places have only 1 day passes and take only cash




You can buy them in the Cornell Store now

These seem like some good options for you:

>One-day Zone 1 ($3) Zone 2 cards ($4). These are expiration-based passes. Once activated on the bus, can be used as frequently as the passenger wishes within that particular service day.  
>  
>Adult 15-ride Zone 1 cards ($20) adult 15-ride Zone 2 cards ($33). These passes are good for 15 one-way rides and are not expiration based




You can also just use cash ($2 per ride but honestly the driver's don't give a fk, some people put 50 cents in but it's also a bit rude).




I’m also an incoming freshman interested in playing D&D, so if you end up putting a group together/finding a group I’ll gladly join in




The board game club is probably your best bet outside of putting a group together with your friends; at the start of the semester at least one person usually emails the board game club mailing list looking to start a group.




Seconding that the game club is gonna be your best bet; that's where I met my group!




I know a few people who DM/would be interested in it! I can’t promise anything without talking to them first, but DM me with what you’re looking for and I can see if I can get a campaign kicked off.




There definitely is a D&D club at Cornell, although idk if it’s official.  My roommate was on the listserv, although I don’t know much else about it




I DM right now for a friends-only 5e group. I won't make promises with my stacked schedule this year but if you end up with a group and just need to find a DM, there's a chance I can make something happen. (I wouldn't be adding you to my existing table just because of the player dynamics)




Hey! I am actually DMing a Curse of Strahd game this semester! I already have 6 players so I probably can't take anyone else, but we do exist. I was kinda jammed into the role as DM because almost nobody else knew how to play. 

&#x200B;

Unfortunately I think the best way to go about this is getting your friends into it. It is gonna suck to explain all the 5e rules and how to make a character and such, but it has definitely been worth it for me. 

&#x200B;

If you want to play right now, though, and you don't want to DM, Roll20 always has games going, and I play on there every Saturday with a Pro DM and people who aren't late to games and such. If you need space, you can reserve rooms in Mann or Uris and use discord.




Nerds over here playing 5e. We at the underground polyhedra rolling club only partake in true old-school tabletop RPGs (ADnD 2e) so check your privilege at the door and don't forget to bring Cheetos or you will be terminated, maggot.




I think I have the solution!

I once had a fruit fly problem that I can only imagine was far worse than yours (easily hundreds of them mutherfuckers). All I did was leave out a few wide cups of vinegar. Those dumb motherfuckers love the smell so much they drown themselves in it.




I've purchased Venus flytraps from the local Walmart!  As a student in plant science I don't think the department offers anything, but you could try reaching out to professors when school starts and ask if they have any extra fly paper.




half an inch of apple cider vinegar in a glass, a few drops of dish soap swirled into it.

the soap breaks the surface tension so they fall in when they go investigate the aroma

also make sure you've got all your food sealed up and dishes washed, or it'll split their attention




Would venus flytraps really help with this? Iirc a lot of domesticated venus flytraps aren't good at luring and catching insect prey. Plus, the thing will close its mouth around a single fruit fly if stimulated; doesn't seem to be good for significantly controlling population numbers. Although, venus flytraps are pretty cool to have around by themselves.




Once the school year starts I can hook you up. I grow a ton of plants and though I don’t have any carnivorous ones rn I can get some in bulk and sell one to you.




One thing to do when you have recurring flies is to pour boiling water down the drain in your sink if you've got one.  We did the same thing throwing out everything and it turns out that's where they'd been coming from.  We did this once or twice a day for a few days and they were all gone and didn't come back (until my roommate actually left old fruit in the kitchen and those flies also nested in the sink).




I’ve seen them at Wegmans




Found these on Amazon:

https://www.amazon.com/Asian-Pitcher-Plant-Nepenthes-Carnivorous/dp/B01DN8O5V0/ref=sr_1_3?keywords=carnivorous+plant&qid=1562086556&s=gateway&sr=8-3

https://www.amazon.com/9GreenBox-Cape-Sundew-Plant-Pot/dp/B001B3WFNK/ref=sr_1_9?keywords=carnivorous+plant&qid=1562086556&s=gateway&sr=8-9#customerReviews




Ya where, Also don’t take yourself so seriously, Remember to take things like health, and safety seriously, but also let kids be kids (ie freshman be freshman, or upper classmen live their lives if you’re down in south campus). All in all, your job is to be a liaison for the newer students, be them freshmen or transfers. Do your best to shove them in the right direction if their confused about opportunities or interests. Try to be approachable and fun. Make sure you’re stern when you need to be.

With respect to your life, make sure you set boundaries. Residents will always assume that you’re on call, but you’re a student too and need time to live and do work and have fun and eat and not worry about other people. Make sure you set those boundaries early. When you’re On Call you need to be in RA mode, but whenever else, live your life how you want, if you want to be there for a resident during those times then that’s fine, but know that you don’t have to, and that they should respect your time.

Sorry for the generic and maybe cluttered advice! Good luck this coming year!

edit: spelling




Training will be loooooooong but worth it. Remember that it's a job; you should be there for your kids however you can but this shouldn't come at the expense of your sanity or go beyond expected boundaries. Sometimes you're going to need to be on the job at 3 a.m., this doesn't mean that you're expected to be on the job at 3 a.m. *every night.*  Don't be afraid to ask for backup from your fellow RAs in/out of the building as well as your RHD (depending on your relationship with them).  Seriously, you'll be seeing each other every week on minimum, invest the time. For programming, just try to think of things that are fun/topical while being feasible. A good rule of thumb is to think: what isn't provided by Cornell already? What might my residents be missing from home? 

&#x200B;

Also, it is soooooo not your job to clean up drunken puke. Ask the resident if they need medical assistance or if they shouldn't be left alone. If so, call CUEMS. If they're actually fine, show them to the janitor's closet. This is official policy.




Of wherr




depending on how long ago u emailed him, you could email again - its summer so he probably doesnt care too much about email

but tbh unless the class requires a code you should be able to enroll

if not, you could def wait till fall and harass the prof in person - i think youll get it come fall for sure

i think you should be fine since its a 1000 level class




I'm not 100% sure but I think this class is mostly for people in the Performing Arts major as these labs are required and I expect they can't be too large.




[https://classes.cornell.edu/browse/roster/FA19/class/PMA/1410](https://classes.cornell.edu/browse/roster/FA19/class/PMA/1410)

&#x200B;

Does not say anything about instructor consent here.




Hello Future Student,

First off, I am exceedingly disappointed in you for even thinking about sucking up to a professor to enroll in a class with no space left. You should be good enough at electrical engineering to hack student center in your sleep and add yourself to the roster. You should be having wet dreams about policy analysis and management and fingering yourself to the sight of a major-required class opening up on student center. I expect all of my PMA 1410 students to have tongueblasted an economist at least once throughout the semester; if you want to place out, then you should at least know how to give a rusty trombone to the founder of ILR himself. If you don't feel up to any of this and still want to email your professor with your Pornhub email address, then I'm afraid the fine science of policy analysis and management is not for you, and you should pick a different field like government.

May yo black ass always have its policy ANALized and managed,

Liam McAssinmydickister




Honestly if you’re pre-med and already have the background in Spanish, it might be wise to continue it. Spanish is one of the most useful languages to know as an American physician and you can start at an easier level (say intermediate instead of more advanced classes) if you’re worried about forgetting stuff from high school.

Otherwise, I would recommend any Romance language (Portuguese, French, Italian) if you want a simple one. Languages like Arabic and Mandarin will definitely be more useful for your career but they’re the most difficult for non-native speakers to pick up.




Easiest with four years of Spanish but don't want to take Spanish? You'll coast through any other Romance language: Portuguese, French, Italian.




Portuguese for Spanish Speakers is pretty nice. Professor is a funny and chill guy, work isn't bad at all, and you do learn a lot quickly just due to the nature of Portuguese being very close to Spanish.

One class of it (PORT 2010) will fulfill any requirement you have and if you like it you can take PORT 2020 the following semester.




As a premed in the US, Spanish is the most strategic language to learn well, esp since u already have experience:) However, other Romance languages are also an option (Italian and Portuguese in my experience are lighter in workload than Spanish and French by a long shot). 

If u are looking for something easy, exciting and flexible I would recommend Indonesian. It’s a language of emerging global importance that very few people learn. The classes are much smaller (2-7 students as opposed to 15+ in Romance languages) and the schedule is designed around your class schedule. (Indonesian also uses Latin letters so it’s easy to write)

Arabic and Mandarin would be very useful global languages to learn as a premed, but require much more time and effort, since the scripts and grammar take longer to learn.




You're overthinking it. Just take a 2k level Spanish at some point in the next 4 years.

I can barely string a sentence together in French, but I yolo'd 2090 my senior spring and scraped out a C+.




Unrelated to foreign language - but keep in mind that many med schools explicitly want 2 semesters of general chemistry. I don't know if it's acceptable for a chem major to take the 2070-2080 track, but if you have the room in your schedule you may want to just take those courses instead.




I wouldn’t recommend using classroom study to learn a foreign language. It may help get some grammar points down but if you want to actually become fluent you should try the mass immersion approach. Look it up on google, it’s the first website link. If you have a language requirement just take Spanish again honestly.




The course number is usually indicative of difficulty but that is not always the case. 

There are classes with high course numbers that are easy/straight-forward comparatively (INFO 4430, CS 5150) while classes with lower numbers that tend to be more difficult (1920, 2800).

Not sure if this is actually the case but I think course numbers represent the 'year' you generally take the class rather than the difficulty. 1000 = freshman, 2000 = soph, etc. - you can have 'hard' frosh courses and 'easy' senior ones.




Half the students in grad courses are undergrads for many courses.




I took 5306 my senior fall. Definitely possible to take 5000-level CS classes as an undergrad, especially if they aren't that popular so that it's not full by your enrollment time.




Its becoming less indicative honestly. Before it was 1000 = freshman, 2000 = sophomore, etc. but even within the undergrad sphere stuff is mixed around to that like freshmen and sophomores are doing stuff like 3110. Anyway, specifically 5000 courses it depends on the course. Some are just crosslisted with undergrad courses for the sake of graduation (e.g INFO 2300 is like NBA 5301 or something), some are predominately undergrad anyway like 5150 and 5152 (in like the unofficial census the professors usually do on day 1 both showed majority being undergrad), then some teach from a different POV (CV undergrad is more math and application while grad CV is more reading papers and researching that area). There are of course “grad” classes but this one you’ll want to just research for yourself a bit.




Most 5000 level courses are not substantially more difficult than 4000 level courses. In general department course difficulty is very much class-by-class basis. There are some courses that are comically easy, some that are very hard- course number has no real bearing on this.




You enter the CASE exam in a superposition of having an equation sheet and not having an equation sheet.  If this stays coherent, both forms of you will take the exam and produce a certain score.  

Only after the Office of the Registrar tries to observe your score does your wavefunction collapse and we find out whether you were allowed an equation sheet.




Hmmmmm




war is peace

freedom is slavery

Trump is a Christian

formula sheet is provided and absolutely forbidden




It might be that there’s a section on the exam paper that gives relevant formulas but it’s not a separate sheet? Probably best to just send them both this picture lol




This is what things are like here, better get used to it. In all seriousness tho, prof McAllister is probably gonna be the boi proctoring the exam and the department heads never have any clue what’s going on so I’d listen to him. I’d ask again just to be safe




Prof McAllister is the new DUS with effect from this month I think, so I believe his reply holds more weight lol




Hello Future Student,

First off, I am exceedingly disappointed in you for even thinking about having a formula sheet. You should be good enough at electromagnetism to think about it and solve problems in your sleep. You should be having wet dreams about Gauss's law and fingering yourself to the sound of an AC induction motor. I expect all of my 2213 students to have tongueblasted an electrical engineer at least once throughout the semester; if you want to place out, then you should at least know how to give a rusty trombone to Faraday himself. If you don't feel up to any of this and still want to search up your "formula sheet" on SpankBang, then I'm afraid the fine science of electromagnetic theory is not for you, and you should pick a different field like operations research.

May the F=ma be with yo black ass,

Liam McCockinmydickister




Fuck those Mews -> Becker kids




Just submit your life to the ctown landlords.




Is Risley really that bad, though? It’s close to campus without the Slope being in the way.




See how the fates their gifts allot




You lr6 or 7?




Sophomores who lived in Schuyler should get free housing the next year




General rule of thumb: if you have credit, take it and run. 

There are plenty of other GPA boosting classes if you really want them.




Stop worrying so much about your GPA and just take classes you think are interesting. Tech employers don't really care that much about GPA anyway.




yeah it’s alright, the teacher is enthusiastic and has a lot of fun w it. just a warning, you have to switch off partners every minute or two so if you’re scared of germs and like... touching other people you’re probably going to be uncomfortable




Yeah I agree. It was uncomfortable to stare random people in the eyes while dancing. I also found it very boring because most of the time there isn’t even music playing and the instructor teaches things very slowly.




Person bias, but take salsa or Latin dance. Much more fun. Plus there are parties at Agava on Wednesday nights for Latin dance, 18+, and other dances throughout the semesters.




What on earth does a pre-law society do, exactly.

&#x200B;

I ask this as a practicing lawyer. There's really no need to bring any kind of relevant experience to law school, if anything I think it's more likely to get in the way.




Phi Alpha Delta is the biggest one, with Kappa Alpha Pi being another. I’m not in either so I can’t tell you what they’re like.




Phi Alpha Delta is a pretty good option if you’re unsure about law and want to learn more while in undergrad. Professors from the law school give lectures on current issues in their fields, pre-law advisors from Cornell come to talk with the group about applying to law school, the officers post about LSAT resources/practice exams being offered through Cornell & Powerscore on campus, etc. Before committing, the officers emphasized that it’s actually good to join if you’re unsure because you can explore whether you’d actually want to pursue a career in law, which certainly is not for everyone. Generally, everyone is very friendly and I didn’t get an elitist or classist vibe from the group members whatsoever. There are also pretty good discounts for GRE and LSAT prep that I’m actually taking advantage of this summer. The recruitment process was painless (one interview just to get to know you) but it varies from year to year.




I took Italian IV with Michela Baraldi last semester , she is amazing and everyone loves her!! So if u wanna try out Italian I highly recommend her class:)




I speak French at roughly a pre-school level and I managed to pull a C+ in 2090. I may have gotten a little leeway because I was a second-semester senior, but it's definitely not that hard to get a passing grade.




German classes are great! I learned so much and the median grade is usually around A/ A- in 1000 level classes




Talk with your advisor and see if you’d be willing to take a leave of absence for a semester or a year. A lot of people do it, and it’s one way for parents to really start taking mental health seriously. When I went on leave, I stayed in Ithaca for treatment because home had next to nothing, so my parents knew I was getting the help I needed. If you’re really struggling, I wouldn’t rely solely on Cornell Health. 
If you’ve tried talking to your parents about mental health and they still don’t understand its severity, taking a leave of absence would definitely convey to them that your situation is a lot more serious than they thought.




Dining halls?




I think fitness centers are hiring too, you can find details on their website




GenChem won’t transfer without the lab.  But you can take a separate lab and transfer both.  Form (and information) is available on Chem dept website.




Go on CALS Dust and use the requirement search function to look up Chem or Physics courses that fulfill that req, I believe there are courses without lab that meets the req.




Just an FYI, if you want to find a job in ML, you’re almost definitely going to need more than an undergraduate degree.




Take some ML courses and stats courses, and try to get involved with either ML research or research where you can apply ML. Good understanding of stats is what sets aside people who are serious about being data scientists from random CS majors that follow tensorflow tutorials.  


It's uncommon for undergrads to get get internships or FT offers in data science/ML, but being involved with research is probably your best bet.




Undergrads set up some stupid tensorflow project and swear they know enough ML to be a competitive candidate in that field.... lol plz




**FROSH SCHEDULING FAQ**    

DISCLAIMER: I am an engineer and as such biased, but you all seem to be engineers too so whatever.    
    

**Q: I have a course schedule in mind that goes against recommendations. How should I reformat it?   
A: RECOMMENDATIONS ARE JUST SUGGESTIONS. You can take ENGRI and CS together! If you're chemE you dont have to take CS 1112 instead of 1110 (in fact I'd advise against it)! You don't have to tie yourself in knots as long as you have a clear and reasonable plan!**   
Q: how many credits should I take?   
A: the number of credits is irrelevant,  I could easily make a 16 credit schedule that is impossible or an easy 30 credit schedule. Overload on classes and drop them during drop (until october) until it's manageable.  
Q: can I get from x to y in 15m?  
A: Yes.  
Q: Is XXXX hard?   
A: Assume it is. If you really want to know look up the professor and check ratemyprof.   
Q: Should I take my AP Credit?  
A: YES. Exceptions: you are a physics major taking 1116, or a chem/chemE taking 2150.  
Q: Should I take CS 2112/CHEM 2150/PHYS 1116?  
A: If you have the prereq and are majoring in the subject, maybe. Otherwise no. Especially think twice about whether you are ok spending 30+ hours a week on 2112.   
Q: How can I prepare for the 1920 CASE?   
A: Use Paul's notes and old finals, the CASE is easier than actual exams.   
**Q: Should I take a 9AM? I'm a morning person so I think it'll be fine haha.  
A: DO NOT TAKE ANY CLASSES BEFORE 10AM UNLESS IT IS UNAVOIDABLE. TRUST US (EVERYONE WHO HAS EVER TAKEN A 9AM) ON THIS.**  
Q: How do I pick/plan for a major/double major/minor?  
A: Minors are useless except business and CS. Do not take any courses that don't interest you except the ones in your major, which you should pick based only on what you want to do out of college and be willing to change. If you want to make a lot of money, pick CS like everyone else. The only useful double majors are CS MATH and PHYS.  
Q: Should I take CS 1110 or 1112? Spring or fall?   
A: 1110 in fall. Full stop. I was an 1112 consultant who took 1110, trust me when I say Walker white is amazing and 1110 gives you a much better foundation that 1112. I don't care what your major recommends, take 1132 if you really want to learn matlab.




My classes don't have a lot of options for times, and I'm also planning on taking an FWS but I'm not sure which ones I'm considering yet, and the list for this year will come out July 3 so I'm deliberating a bit more.

ENGRI 1120 only has that timeslot, and due to that, CS 1110 only has one remaining spot. I left a blank 2 or hours or so between discussion and lectures for lunch and such, but I'm not sure if it's better to just pick discussion times around 12 and then have the rest of the day free (unless the FWS is there).

Does this schedule look manageable? I'm a little worried that all the lectures (CS, ENGRI, ENGRG) are placed 15 minutes apart from each other, which is my main concern... If not I'm considering a different option of taking CHEM 2150 first instead of CS 1110.

Here is the link to my schedule: [here](https://classes.cornell.edu/shared/schedule/FA19/1ba964eb949dd8a14dff1a0026cbb316) Thank you!




Hi. I'm an engineering major. My pre-enrolled ENGRG 1050 class is really getting in the way of my schedule (at least for the fws).

Is it possible to ignore the ENGRG and just switch to another one later so I can get the class that would be in that time slot?




There's not a lot of info on here for applied econ majors, but can anyone tell me if my first year schedule is good?

AEM 1101 - Design Your Dyson (required)

AEM 2200 - Business Management & Organization

ECON 1110 - Intro to Microeconomics

ENGL 1105 - FWS: Writing & Sexual Politics (SEM 103 - Sensational Women)

MATH 1110 - Calculus I (retake)

PE 1405 - Living Routines


Also, can anyone tell me of any other cool PE classes to take? I don't want to go easy on myself but I also don't want to collapse after every class.




Incoming freshman for CALS here (most likely an Animal Science degree). I understand the process of enrollment, but I’m honestly at a loss of where to begin as far as course selection is concerned. I’m overwhelmed with the options and don’t really know where to start.  

I’ve been browsing the class roster and seeing specific courses that pique my interest, but figuring out what would be a decent schedule for first semester is proving to be unnecessarily difficult for me. Any help is appreciated!




I am an incoming CS major in the College of Arts and Sciences. My schedule so far is CS 2112, MATH 2210, SPAN 1120, and PE 1300. I have 5s in Physics 1 and both C tests and am interested in taking physics courses out of my own interest and to satisfy distribution requirements. Should I take Physics 2217 or start with something lower? Thanks!




If I plan on giving the 1920 CASE,  should I pre-enroll in 2930, or be safe and enroll in 1920?




I am an incoming freshman for the SHA, is my schedule predetermined for me? Can I pick classes as a first year student?




Why does the scheduler let me put two diff classes on the same day and time?




as a premed, would it be better to take CHEM 2150 or 2070 + 2080? I would like to take CHEM 2150, especially since I'm planning on majoring in chem, but do med schools prefer students take 2070+2080?




I know average grades in a class are on your transcript- but is there a way to see the average grade in past terms of a class while trying to make my schedule?




[deleted]




I'm kinda worried that my course load's going to be too heavy. My schedule's pretty dependent on how much AP credit I get from this year's exams (I'll know my scores before pre-enrollment begins), so I've made an [ideal schedule](https://classes.cornell.edu/shared/schedule/FA19/a9089afb4e59f8ef34613810dcc60da0) assuming I get all the credit I want and backup schedules in case I don't. FYI, I'm a prospective ECE major.

&#x200B;

[Backup #1](https://classes.cornell.edu/shared/schedule/FA19/6b32a27276560b60d65422bf51be47db)

[Backup #2](https://classes.cornell.edu/shared/schedule/FA19/b533ddb18a379deea1b05cb9ddf5b5a0)

(I was trying to avoid 9 ams but it was either that or a night class)

&#x200B;

Thank you!




Hi. Am I right in understanding CS 2112 is only offered in the fall and likewise CS 2802 only in spring?

If so, why?

Thanks :)




Hi, I'm an incoming engineering freshman planning to major in CS. I'm just very confused rn and was hoping to get some confirmation/advice:

1. CS: Does CSA credit mean that I can skip the intro to computing requirement? Like not take CS 1110 or CS 1112, and go directly to CS 2110? If so, is that recommended for CS majors, or should I plan on taking CS 2110?
2. Physics: I have Physics C Mechanics and E&M credit, but I'm really doubtful about those because I'm pretty awful at physics lmao. It also looks like PHYS 1112 and PHYS 2213 cover more material than the AP Physics C courses. If I only major in CS, does that mean I wouldn't have any more physics requirements aside from 1112+2213, and would you recommend I just take the credit and not suffer through any more physics?
3. More physics: I was also a bit confused since PHYS 2213 has MATH 1910 and 1920 as pre-requisites. Does that mean the PHYS 2213 course uses multivariate calc and advanced math? I only have Calc BC credit so I'm taking MATH 1920 and wouldn't be able to take PHYS 2213 yet, so am I still allowed to skip PHYS 2213 because I have the AP credit?
4. English/liberal studies: I have AP Lang credit so I'm skipping one FWS. Should I take a FWS first semester, than start taking liberal studies courses second semester instead of as a sophomore like recommended?
5. AEW: Would you recommend taking an AEW?

Sorry for all the questions, I feel really dumb because I feel like scheduling should be more straightforward than I'm making it :') I'd really appreciate some advice, thanks!




I'm an incoming freshman majoring in History, but I'm not completely set on pursuing it. I'm planning to take a Spanish course (2090), a History course (1511), and a Biology course (1440) since I'm interested in those subjects, but I'm not sure if this is a good idea. Should I be more streamline with my courses/not try to take one in every subject? Any advice?




Whats the diff between MATH 2210 and 2230 and in what case should I take either? I'm planning on doing CS and Math double major.




Does the appointment window for freshmen start at midnight July 8th, or at 9:00 AM (when the FWS ballot opens)?




Hi, incoming freshman at CAS. I have a hard time figuring out what to take for first semester. Can you please take a look at my classes to see if this is reasonable?
MATH 1920 (alternate MATH 2210)
CS 1110 (alternate CS 1112)
ASTRO 1101 (alternate EAS 1540) - consider ASIAN 2211 too but afraid workload is too much
Plus PE and FWS.
Thank you in advance!!!




DO premeds have to take both bio and chem freshmen year?  I ideally don't want to take off a year before med school and would even love to do a semester abroad.  Is this possible?  TIA




Hey I am in A&S right now and just took the French LPF for my requirement. If I got placed into French 1220, does that mean I don´t need to take French 1210 in my first semester at all?




Freshmen here, I am not planning on taking a science class first semester, so rather than taking a computing course one semester and then an intro to engineering next, could I take them both the first semester? Basically here’s my first sem:
- Math 1920
- FWS
- ENGRI 1170 Intro to ME
- *ECE 2400 or CS 2110 (maybe)
*im just not sure about taking my computer science course first semester

Thanks for the help and please let me know if there’s any important info I left out.




Yo I'm an incoming freshman, can I just check if FWS counts towards our 18 credit limit?  Thanks!




I'm taking Math 1110, Chem 2070, BioEE 1610, FDSC 1101 plus a PE and FWS. It's 16 credits, does this sound like a manageable amount of work? I'm a food science major in CALS.

Thanks guys!




Can I affiliate CS if I take MATH 2210?

&#x200B;

The requirements for affiliating CS say that I need "**a GPA of 2.5 or better in Math 1120/1220/1920"** and make no mention of MATH 2210.

&#x200B;

Does this mean that I must take MATH 1920 before affiliating?




With the way my schedule works, I'm going to have a class at 8:40 a.m. two days out of the week. In everyone's experience, how difficult is it to get up for these classes, especially as a night owl/late sleeper?




Hey, is this schedule for HBHS fine (also for the Pre-Med track)?

CHEM2070

BIOG1500

NS1150

NS1160

FWS

PE

I feel like I should be taking a math class or something additional, but not sure if that would be too much to handle first semester? Also what’s with people being so against early classes? I was planning on having a 9:05 class Tuesday-Thursday most likely and not sure what the problem with early starts is? I had a 7:00 start in high school for the past two years so I have no problem getting up early, plus I’d prefer to have afternoons open rather than mornings.




I'm in CAS, trying to explore my interests in humanities (rare, i know):

CHIN 1109

COGST 1500 (took APES in high school)

ARTH 1100 (took AP art history in high school, but had a super crappy teacher)

GERST 1109 (FWS)

PE

Do you think I have room to add an intro to econ class? I've never taken econ before. If I do, micro or macro?




Is it okay to take 2940 with only Calc BC credit? I’m a cs major in arts and sciences, and I heard that 1920 is only a requirement for engineers.




I originally applied CoE (parents were set on me being an engineer), but they finally understand I don’t have interest in that path. I now plan to major in CS in CAS, but I can’t transfer schools until next semester. Therefore, I’m stuck in engineering for a semester. 

My current schedule is CHEM 2090, MATH 1910, CS 1110, an FWS, and a gym. Should I add a foreign language onto my schedule? I’m concerned because intro classes are only offered first semester, and I don’t want to be a year behind on my foreign language reqs. 
I’d appreciate any help with this sticky situation :)




Is taking CS 2112 and CS 2800 together a horrible idea? I'm an incoming freshman (CS major). For my first semester I was thinking of either taking 2800 or a liberal studies course along with 2112, but if I take a liberal studies course now I'll probably end up taking CS 2800 and CS 3110 together next semester. Which would be the better option?




I am hoping to take CHEM 2510 (Introduction to Experimental Organic Chemistry) but all lab sections are closed. Do they typically add more sections or am I screwed?




I'm a freshman planning to double major in CS and psychology. I pre-enrolled in MATH 2210 (with AP credit), CS 2112 (I only learned Java on my AP CS class and got 5. Will it be enough for me to start with 2112?), PSYCH 2230, ASL 1101, PE 1184 and FWS, but the schedule looks pretty tight on Scheduler. Any suggestions to adjust my schedule maybe? Thank you!




Hi I’m an incoming freshman intending to study Operations Research Engineering. I wanted to take ENGRD 2700 but when I went to pre-enroll, the discussion sections that would work with my schedule are closed. The class is still open, how likely is it for me to take 2700 this semester? If not, should I go for a liberal studies class (history/culture) or a language class? Thanks so much to whoever answers this




Why does the class roster for CS 3110 and CS 3410/3420 say that these classes should not be taken together? 

&#x200B;

Is it too much work?




What does it mean by "Closed" for pre enrolment? Does it mean nobody else can join the class anymore? I have a module where the discussion can only fit into a specific timeslot but it is full now. Any advice would be appreciated :)




Of course! Good luck this year!!




What are some easy AEM courses for the dyson business minor for engineers in the category " **Business Management to Support Career Goals** "?  Most of the listed ones are 3000s or 4000s level classes: 3110, 3120, 3200, 3220, 3230, 3249, 3250, 3251, 3360, 3370, 3380, 3390, 3440, 4020, 4060, 4070, 4080, 4120, 4140, 4150, 4160, and more... (link:  [https://dyson.cornell.edu/programs/undergraduate/minors/engineers/](https://dyson.cornell.edu/programs/undergraduate/minors/engineers/) )




Just finished freshman year, I don't think engri 1270 was offered previously.




Math 1106 is for premeds and easier than Math 1110




1110>1106




I definitely agree with the 8am thing. Not saying you’re wrong, but sometimes it can’t be avoided. A lot of math classes I took only had 1 or 2 afternoon sections, and the rest were at 8am. But yeah, avoid them if possible

Edit: also agree not to take too many credits bc you’ll have time for that later. I took 17 and was still struggling a lot




I very much agree with this. I went to Cornell for grad school and the attitude of students toward number of credit hours was a little disturbing to me. (For reference, I went to the University of Florida for undergrad - ranked 35, where the best students would very much do well at Cornell, but with a mixture of some that aren't quite that level and some where you wonder how they got in...) At UF, nobody really talks about how many credit hours they're taking and people don't sit around comparing schedules. The computer system actually wouldn't allow you to sign up for more than 18 hours. To do that, you had to go talk to an adviser and explain WHY you wanted to take more than 18, and they would manually allow you if they felt it was sustainable for you. At Cornell, credit hours seem to be such a strong focus for people - I almost felt like it was a competition to have the hardest schedule. That's understandable, because if a student has been accepted to Cornell, you can assume that they are a high-achieving student who is used to doing well compared to their peers. A lot of us are pretty competitive academically. But I also noticed that students at Cornell suffer from a lot of mental health issues, compared to UF. It is very difficult to go from being a big fish in a small pond to a setting where you may be average or below average, because the average student is pretty awesome. It was a struggle for me, as an award-winning, published grad student, being brought in on Cornell's highest university fellowship. I don't know if I could have handled it as an 18-year-old. 

&#x200B;

The goal is to receive a Cornell diploma, and hopefully receive a great education while getting to try lots of really cool activities and making some great friends along the way. Some people can do that while taking 20-something credits every semester. Others really can't. And you really don't need to! You don't need to amass 150% of the required credit hours by the time you graduate. It's not a competition to see who can pull the most all-nighters and be the most miserable. Don't do that to yourself. Especially don't do that your first semester, when you have a whole lot of adjusting to do. See how you respond, build friendships, learn your way around, see if you even like your major(!) and then load yourself up if you want to progress quickly or learn a lot on the side. But don't do it just because your think your schedule "isn't hard enough."

&#x200B;

(On the subject of classes first thing in the morning - I liked to do that because it made me get out of bed and I could be done with class at noon, but I definitely wouldn't recommend it your first semester. See how late you stay up and how good you are about making it to classes a little later first.)




Great post, OP. I completely agree. As a recent grad, I want to emphasize the importance of getting involved beyond your scheduled academics early on. 

It’s too early as a freshman to be thinking about jobs, but keep this in the back of your head. In every interview I had throughout my job search, very rarely did the conversation revolve around what classes I took. More often than not, people will recognize that having an XYZ degree from Cornell carried the credentials they were looking for. Instead, they were way more interested in other experiences on my resume that set me apart. Employers were curious to hear how I got involved in clubs that were so beyond my academic skills, and it set me up well for a conversation that shows off other interest and the opportunity to tie back connections to the field. 

Getting involved early gives you the time to try different things, drop those that you don’t enjoy, and climb the ladder on the things that you’re passionate about and help grow your skill set beyond academics. 

Good luck to all the incoming freshman!




I had 8am every day weekly first semester. It certainly just gets harder when it’s colder.




Check under academic history on student center. It should show you all the ap credits they’ve accepted. It’s done automatically




I'm pretty sure you don't need to officially indicate anything, you can just enroll in the next course in the sequence. If the class you have credit for is a major requirementyYou could shoot an email to someone in that department and explain your situation if you want, that's what I did to make sure I could use my Calc BC credit.




I got a 5 on my AP chem but forfeited it so I could take 2070. Idk what your specific situation is but I’m a premed bio major so I wanted to have 2070 just to reinforce my chem understanding. 

Depending on your situation it might be worth it to take 2150. I wouldn’t recommend skipping 2070 then jumping into 2080 in the spring. Although, since you took AP chem, you probably know most of 2070/2080 content already, taking a Cornell chem class is a completely uniquely challenging thing. I feel like 2070 at the very least helped me transition into Cornell and taught me how to succeed in a chem lab at Cornell. I feel like without having taken 2070 lab, 2080 lab would be more hell than it already was.




>I also worry about having an evening discussion and inconvenience/safety (especially as a girl) walking back to Central campus after dinner back at North.

The walk from central campus to north is probably one of the safest walks in Ithaca. I definitely would not worry about this. 

That being said, things do happen - if you're still concerned you should buy a little can of mace and attach it your wallet/etc. Better safe than sorry I guess.




I recommend not doing 3 AEWs, or any for the matter. From my experience, they are often not as helpful as learning how to study. 

The walk between central and north is very safe and I routinely take it in the nightly AM hours. But with that in mind I would prefer the 9am discussion bc I hate going back to central after dinner.




I did exactly what you’re talking about last year.  As someone who was also on the fence about chemE, the ENGRI class was very helpful and was absolutely worth pushing my CS class to the 2nd semester for.  I was originally also going to take a night discussion for MATH 1920, but I was able to switch into one of the few afternoon times during add/drop.  Also, in my opinion, 9AM>7:30PM>8:30PM>8AM.




I dont understand why frosh have this idea that you can't take CS and ENGRI together. It's just a recommendation! Crazier things have been done. Now, there is something to be said for delaying the ENGRI to spring and taking an ECE or CHEM ENGRD instead of an ENGRI (verify with adjusting that this is still allowed), especially if one interests you. Both options are fine. Regarding the 8am vs 8pm, I have had friends take 8 am and 8 PM classes. All of them liked 8pm better. Safety is personal so if you feel unsafe I'd buy some mace as u/vpl__ recommends, regardless of having an 8pm or not.




Hi, I'm a ChemE, so you can pm me with any questions. Intro to ChemE war a really good class and I enjoyed it a lot. I was on the fence freshman year and that class is the reason why I decided to stick with ChemE. Intro to ChemE gives a pretty good glimpse into ChemE, its just like a lite version of the first class, Mass and Energy Balances. I would definitely recommend taking Intro to ChemE.

There's no real reason you need to take CS in the fall freshman year. CS 1110 is offered in both the fall and spring, and it doesn't set you behind at all to take it in the spring. I'm a CS minor, and I took CS 1112 in the spring, and didn't take my next CS class until the next spring and I'm not behind at all.




I'm not an engineer so I can't speak to that question, but as for morning vs evening discussion, that's up to you and what you'd rather deal with. Also speaking as a girl, I've had evening classes before and never dealt with any safety issues, although I only had to walk as far as the Arts quad - you could always make some freshman friends in your discussion so you can walk home to North together. On the other hand, whether or not you can do early classes depends on whether you're a morning person, and I personally like having little gaps between classes so I can grab a snack or finish any homework I forgot about. Worst case scenario, you can always swap your discussion time during add drop! Hope this helped a bit :)




Take the 8/9 am discussions for sure, night discussions are incredibly annoying (you think your day is done once you get back to north and surprise! it’s not.) Morning discussions aren’t as bad as everyone says they are and your day would end earlier. As for the chemE ENGRI, I would take it if you’re still on the fence about the major because it’s only offered in the fall and you don’t want to regret not taking it in the future. Also, there are plenty of ways to expose yourself to ECE things outside of class (most project teams, Maker Club, IEEE, etc), but chemE things are a bit more hard to come by as a freshman without having taken some upper level classes. You should probably then push your CS class to the spring because you don’t want to make the first semester too heavy, you’ll have 7 more opportunities to torture yourself with overloading on credits so don’t sweat it :)




I'm A ChemE, feel free to pm me if you have more questions! I didn't personally take Intro to ChemE, so it's definitely not necessary for the major, but my friends who took it have said that it gives a good overview of the major. That said, which ENGRI you take is pretty inconsequential, so you don't hav eto let it mess with your schedule.

If you do decide to stick with it, I would suggest taking the 9am discussion (assuming I'm reading what you said correctly and that's an option) since evening classes can be tough in terms of finding the motivation to actually attend them. Walking around on campus late at night (and even in Collegetown) is pretty safe since we're not in a big city.




You will be fine. 2930+2940 are "easy" (relative to other AEP reqs), other two are not but 2 ez+2 hard is very manageable.




I had a similar sophomore fall.

3110 2800 2217 2940

It was pretty brutal. If you live, you’ll lose a piece of yourself somewhere along the way. I strongly disagree with anyone who says some neutral words like “manageable” or “fine”. It’s gonna be a lot of work and you’re either going to lose out on sleep or a social life or both. If you’re considering a Phys + CS double major, then go for it, otherwise I don’t see why you would.




You’re going to die




I'm my experience, 2112 is comparable to 1116, but your experience will heavily vary.

If you had a strong physics background coming into Cornell (like AP Physics in HS), then 1116 was probably easier for you than it was for me, and 2112 may be comparatively more difficult. On the other hand, if you have significant personal coding experience, then 2112 is a lot easier since that's a bulk of the class - writing a lot of code.

Also, in my opinion, 2110 provides the same content but not the same experience, if that means anything. The average 2110 assignment is around the same length as a 2112 lab exercise, so you're definitely getting more practice in 2112. Besides, 2110 doesn't cover things like Git and spends all of 2 lectures on concurrency, both topics with significant coverage in 2112. Also, as a smaller honors class, 2112 just has more of a community among its students than 2110 does. Whether any of that is worth the extra effort is ultimately up to you, but I think it's fair to say that most people who complete 2112 do enjoy it.

Of course, you can also swap classes at any point during the first 2 weeks, so no point in worrying right now.




This was literally my friend’s schedule this semester. Challenging but manageable if you or in the work




I've taken some of these classes. Here's my two cents:

* CS 2112 was a lot of time (20-25 hrs/week, more if you don't have good partners), but I absolutely loved it. It deals with a lot of software-engineery topics and design decisions as compared to 2110, so I would not recommend it if you are not a CS major, or at the very least, very interested in CS as a whole. 
* CS 2112 vs MATH 1920: 2112 was a different kind of "hard" than MATH 1920 imo. I had to think a lot more about design problems in 2112, whereas my MATH 1920 experience was a lot of number crunching. Both had a fair amount of visualization, but it's hard to compare them.
* From friends, 2110 was much easier, but not as exciting.
* MATH 2930 and MATH 2940: I did both of these at the same time in my 2nd semester. Like MATH 1920, it felt like a lot of number crunching, which was conceptually easy but time consuming. The subjects themselves (LinAlg, DiffEq) are not bad, but I often didn't enjoy their classes .

Can't really help with the other stuff, I haven't done it.

&#x200B;

**TL;DR:** I think your biggest threat is running out of time in each day. It's an ambitious plan, and I wouldn't do it if I were you, but I wish you luck if you try it :)




I thought you were only allowed to be on course staff for one course at a time?  


But to answer some of your questions, 2112 is a LOT more workload compared to Math 1920 (maybe 3-4x), the projects are a much more substantial than 2110 (2110 projects are sort of a joke and 2112 is good experience for doing large-ish projects but its not necessary by any means).   


Probably not a good idea to take 2112 + 3 more math/science classes - I think you could give it a shot, but if you feel overwhelmed don't be afraid to drop a class or two.




I think you can book a ticket online and get a printout. They accept that on the 4 am bus. I've seen one person buy a ticket on the bus. So maybe you could try. Otherwise, you could also buy from Binghamton if they stop there.




You’re best to buy the ticket online and print it (they can’t accept it on your phone). I used to always get on at West Campus and get off at the Green St. station to buy the ticket, but the station won’t be open that early. I got myself into a bit of trouble counting on that one time taking a late bus. The driver was accepting money for tickets, but only cash. They let me go all the way to Binghamton, but the station there was closed too. When faced with having to sit outside there all night in winter the driver took pity on me and stopped at a gas station so I could use an ATM. It was awful and I don’t recommend...I’m usually really prepared, but I slacked off one time and paid for it. I ALWAYS bought and printed online after that.




It can be useful if you're interested in CS theory or quantum information, but for almost all CS majors (who go into industry) it is useless. Either way take the CASE, and you can then decide what course you want to take.




It is not necessary - you can get through the major fine without it (assuming you are not in engineering in which case it is required). However, some upper level classes do have it as a prerequisite, so maybe take a look and see if you are interested in any of those.




PSP staff gives students the impression that they should wear them, usually students realize after a week that it's dumb to wear them so they stop.




Preach 🙌




Thx! I’ll avoid the look!




Some teens/counselors/other campers who are residents here are required to wear the lanyards if it has their name tag attached.




The scene is pretty good downtown, but the ctown bars are mostly dead in the summer. There are a lot more bars down there than most students realize




I don't see what the issue is, they don't conflict. What else are you taking?




This will take you 5 years (to fulfill both colleges' general requirements) and provide you with no advantage after graduation since your job or grad school will focus on only one. Just take whatever chem/ece courses interest you and don't bother getting the second major.




neither ece nor cheme will prepare you for nanotechnology. you’d need a physics or aep background.  source: an ece




Hmm, good question. I was considering doing both when I got into Cornell and I decided to do it. I was the type of student who a week or two after I was accepted I immediately started planning out all of my classes. I had a brother in the same college (A&S) who was a couple years ahead of me and he kept telling me stuff like "don't plan your next four years just enjoy yourself before college" and "you really shouldn't plan your classes because once you get there it will be completely different than you imagine."  Although I ended up ignoring him completely and it turned out to be for the better. I did both and I am now a senior with no regrets!




Regarding python vs matlab, as a matlab consultant who took 1110 I always recommend python. It's a much better class and a more useful language. If you get python down pat you should easily be able to pick up matlab, and if you're worried take 1132 in spring.




Depends on how familiar you are with programming/CS in general; the basic principles still apply but the syntax is a bit different.  You may be able to pick it up pretty easily, or you may want to take one of the transition to matlab classes.




While MSE still officially recommends MatLab, it is more complicated than that. If you are going into an area where you need to do a lot of simulations, MatLab is better. But if you need to code to interface with hardware, a lot of that is in Python these days. So the best class for you has to be determined on a case-by-case basis.

I see a lot of MSE students in 1110. It is fields like ChemE that almost all go to MatLab.




1) monday’s, being done by 1:10 on friday is a blessing
2) yes, plenty
3) very manageable, looks like a standard first year engineering schedule




1: Do the Monday Chem lab. In addition to the general happiness I get from being done early on Fridays, keep in mind that most university breaks start on Mondays. Especially if you live in the northeastern US, some bus companies (that are better than shortline imo) depart at 2 to 3 PM.

&#x200B;

2: 15 minutes is usually enough. The only trip I'd be worried about is the trip from Hollister (southwest side of engineering quad) to Helen Newman (northeast side of North campus), but the 5 extra minutes should be enough to compensate and/or get a TCAT.

&#x200B;

3: From your schedule, I've taken MATH 1920 and CHEM 2090 (and no others), but neither one was very work-intensive. ENGRG is a discussion, not an academic class, so no worries there. No idea about your other classes, but I think you'll be fine.

&#x200B;

Python vs Matlab: I'd lean towards Python, but that's probably because I'm a CS major.




1. Monday

2. Yes

3. Yes

For 1920 dis -> PE you should probably take the TCAT though, doing that walk in 20 minutes is probably more of a workout than the actual pe class lol




I think you’re required to take the engineering math sequence if you want to be an engineer.

Also just take the 1910 credit. I also barely scratched a 5 in junior year and 1920 was manageable (but hard, as for everyone). If you can do basic integration, you’re as prepared as everyone else. You don’t need to know about series or whatever crap that was in BC calc 

Also, may I suggest ChemE? A concurrent degree is so unnecessarily hard, especially between some of the hardest majors in engineering and CAS




If you want to be ece you have to take 1910, or if you can place out of it 1920.




Word salad w/ expensive dressing: Info Sci is a multidisciplinary major that combines different aspects of computer science, statistics, design, etc. to give a holistic overview of what 'tech' is. You specialize in a specific sub-field of 'tech' as you can not learn it all in four years.

Short but more concise: It is a general 'tech' major that becomes more specific as you find out what you want to specialize in.

There are four or five concentrations - all consist of some 'core' of a different discipline but made specific to the tech space. For example, 'Interactive Technologies' uses a lot of CS, but catered to creating software applications. 'Data Science' draws a lot from stats/cs. There's an econ one (Networks and Markets), a policy/law one, and a psych one as well.

The major requirements themselves are easy which I think are both the biggest strength and the biggest weakness of the program. It's a strength because it allows a *ton* of flexibility in what you choose to study (i.e. build your own major but tEcH), but also a weakness because it's easy to coast by on just the major itself and not really do much with it.

I chose IS because I knew that 1. I wanted to be a software engineer/developer and 2. I did not want to go into research. I chose IS over CS because IMO, the Computer Science major is overkill if you already know you want to go into industry right after undergrad (but that's a whole different discussion). I still take a lot of CS classes to make sure I'm not useless, but I have avoided the ones I feel I will never use that are too much of a timesink (ironically i took 3410 tho).




Info sci is great because you can pretty much do whatever you want with it within the realm of technology. By only taking the classes I felt would be directly relevant and helpful to my career as a software engineer I've been able to have a more diverse and less stressful academic career than the average CS major IMO and still have gotten all the same opportunities that any CS major would including internships and research. The only caveat with info sci is I think you need to have a clear vision of what you actually want to do with your degree and start narrowing your focus early on, otherwise it can be easy to just "coast" through the major as /u/vpl__ expressed and not really have a clear direction by the time you graduate which can be scary. So all in all info sci is awesome, but just make sure you're diligent and don't meme your way through the major because it's easier than specializing.




My short story: Computer Science but with more interactions to other things. For example, we can have interactions to health, social networks, design, VR, etc. Info Sci is basically what you make of it, can be easy or hard based on the courses you take. It does offer a lot more freedom than computer science, but you can literally take the exact same courses as CS ppl if you want to, while taking other stuff.




CS in absolute shambles




EZ CS




Computer Science for the people who dropped out from the actual CS program.




I would say CS but taken up to another next level.




Depends on what you wanna do. Majority of econ majors end up going into finance. If finance is really what you wanna do shouldn’t you be more concerned with how theoretical the cs program is here and how it’s not just coding so most of what you learn isn’t going to help you w landing a job in pure finance.




You are totally fine going into finance with an Econ degree, Cornell is a big target school for bulge bracket banks and Econ is a totally okay/common major. Also from talking to people and HR in finance, you learn 99% of things on the job, so your major doesn’t really matter to some extent. 

Only caveat is that as an Econ major, you might have a harder time going through technical questions in finance interviews (discounted cash flow etc), but just take a finance course/read a textbook during the summer and you’ll be good




If you want to go into finance it literally doesn’t matter what your major is




I would say it depends what kind of job you want to do in finance.  I did a CS major and Econ minor (cs specialization) and am working as a software engineer now.  The minor wasn’t really necessary to get the job, but it definitely made me interested in the field more.  Don’t major/minor in something just because you feel like you have to; you’ll have a better time if you’re actually interested.




[deleted]




If you want to go into finance then it's probably better to focus on econ and minor in CS.




[deleted]




With CS2112, I would probably say no - especially not 2800. Unless of course, you're extremely confident.




Music 1421 fills up really fast,,, so you'll definitely have to wait to take it and talk to the instructor. (Just some things I've heard from friends)




Do not take 2800 unless you're ok dropping to 2110. 2112+2800 is a lot, and while some freshmen might be able to handle it I would strongly advise against it, especially concurrent with 1910 and 2070.




Jesus Christ all freshman are such overachievers lmao




You can take the online LPS exam right now I believe. Case is sometime in August if I remember correctly. There is a page somewhere with all the info. I would just take the exam without any outside assistance or prep and see how you do.




Yeah, I took it last year: it was during orientation and there were three sections: the first one was just declining nouns and conjugating verbs, the second was answering questions about a passage, and the third was translating poetry. The three sections increased in difficulty but were generally easy to handle. They gave us about 2.5 hours to complete it, but I think I only used 1. Hope this helps!




american city youre gonna need about 5 or so small books, rather than one text book. also lots of online readings




The cornell store will email you a personalized booklist sometime soon. I think it comes around mid-july, possibly early august. You can get the ISBN from there and buy/pirate it at will.




If you're on the fence with choosing to major in MechE, I would go with that first semester, as it's not offered in the spring and this is your only chance to be exposed to the material. If you're sure about your major, I would take intro to CS, because I've found it more useful for classes in later semesters (eg: took Matlab first semester and used it a bunch for Diff EQ second semester while a lot of people were lost)




If you want to be cs take intro to meche if you want to be meche take intro to cs if you are on the fence about that then take whichever course has more interesting content




Psb is pretty chill, any of the duff/upson/rhodes combo are fine.




HEB is always cold. Especially the hallways.




PSB is so fucking cold that when I inevitably succumb to Cornell and die I will do it in PSB to preserve my corpse.




I feel like those who end up doing policy either switch to ILR or other form of prelaw.




Not sure exactly what your question, but maybe this will help: I’ve gotten a ticket (and successfully appealed it) for not putting my parking pass back up after taking it down to drive on a long road trip. If they don’t see a pass, I don’t believe they will check if there is one associated with the plate. Seems like the card itself needs to be visible.




I don’t think CUPD handles parking tickets. It’s some students employed by Cornell. I have no clue what they look at.




Its either a joke or they just don’t have any on hand money to spend,  in which case they’re probably effectively broke for whatever situation.

Edit: christ you guys are reading way too deeply into people saying they’re broke lmao




Because they have a very narrow range of experience. They truly have no concept of building up a school lunch debt as a 10-year old, or working retail just to make a decent wage instead of taking an unpaid internship related to your degree. Many of them are only comparing themselves to richer kids, and are not seeing the larger picture at all.




It's because they are kids whose parents have always paid for everything and have never had jobs, so they probably don't actually have much money in their own bank accounts.  So they think they're "broke" but then when it comes time to pay for something they just whip out daddy's credit card




Have some empathy. While it may sound kind of assholish to say something like that, it’s an attempt to relate to the vast majority of Cornell students that aren’t rich and that *very often* reference the absurd cost of college.




Maybe I shouldn't have been so inconsidorate with the lower-class students, as many of them do have hardships that upper class students don't. However, it is true that students in the higher class end up going in more debt because of Cornell's financial aid, resulting in them usually having to work extra as well.




Because Cornell hates anyone who is middle class or above, so they make them pay a shit ton. My parents are well off, which means they are giving me 20k a year, but Cornell thinks we can afford 30k. On top of that l, I still have 8k of subsidized loans loans a year. Poor people have it easy, because they're given mostly a free ride, with only 4k in subsidized loans.




PM me and I can send you the pdf via google drive! If anybody needs the pdf for the BIOMG 1350, orgo chem, or the genetics textbooks lmk I have those too.




Whatever you do, don’t use Library Genesis to find almost any textbook for free. That would be ~~the best way to find books and save a boatload of money. Seriously where do y’all think these PDFs come from most of the time~~ an immoral infringement of intellectual property laws. I would never promote such abhorrent behavior. Ridiculous!




Shhhh. More people will come.




I'm most hype about that door finally being open ffs




Cornell finally investing in students. 


“Suffer.... in style”




I’m upset that this is only done now that I’ve graduated.




Photos please?




Blasphemy


Tbh idgaf as long as people treat it as a fucking whisper zone




I’m an alum could I get photos hehe




yes!!!! can't wait to pull all nighters in style and convenience




yesssss a great new space that we can’t find seats in during finals week because everyone else lined up at 10am to suffer!!




I'm sorry, that really sucks and I wish you the best. I don't know about the specifics of probation, but in general, it's good to take the initiative and reach out to the Registrar for your college. Tell them you're feeling awful about how last semester went, and that you're worried about your options for graduating. Get a counselor in your corner - it'll help to have an advocate if/when you have to talk with the Dean's office about it.




>My prior academic history is pretty good, I still have above a 3.0 overall

nobody is going to make you take a leave of absence especially when historically your performance has been good, especially when you're graduating next sem

you'll 9/10 just get put on academic probation with some light requirements to get off (i.e. graduate) - if you don't graduate because you fail stuff again they might tell you to take a leave




No that's not, that video is much older




It should be fairly easy if you did AP, all intro stats are fairly easy. You may learn some R and regression, I never took AP stats so not sure how much it overlaps, just try to find an old syllabus and compare.




I would say very very easy to do well. Just going over slides before exams is all u need. Attendance is annoying with iclicker(i took with karns) but you can def miss 6-8 lectures if u do well on everything else.




Downside is you finish with an arbitrary major that’s the equivalent of “just do 120 credits and you get a shiny diploma.” Roommate of mine basically failed his major so they transferred him to interdisciplinary studies for the sake of graduation. So put that in perspective.




Don't do IDS, do double or major + minor.

Info+Biometry is a popular one for data science and stuff.




https://discord.gg/3GXMdSA

Here's a link to join the discord




Nice photo u took




I miss Ithaca summer.




That sky doe...Took an artsy [picture](https://i.imgur.com/GlntoRB.jpg) around there myself a few days ago. Just love that ridge.




Upvote for pixel




Pixel ftw.




I took both in spring. They’re very different. 5150 is building something from scratch for a client (so we made a CRUD app for a startup in cornell), while 5152 is working on an existing codebase. It was fun and the classes were really chill. Depends on your mentors too. Because our project had dedicated people to it the PRs got processed quickly but then on like Exercism they had issues because it was a pet project for the owner and hence every PR took like 2 days - 2 weeks to get reviewed and put in. All in all the class is meant to help you learn how to handle mature projects and dive into existing codebases which I think it did well. If you have more questions feel free to ask. I’ve got good memory of both classes right now.




This’ll be my third year here, only had to submit that stuff before freshman year




Nope, unless you're a on a varsity sports team you won't have to submit any medical info to Cornell after the initial stuff you send in for freshman year.




Had to do this before coming to the US for my freshman year. No physical but had to get vaccinations and submit blood work.




https://reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/c5oi94/meditation_for_pe/




Same here. For me, I forgot to put something on my Verification Statement. Hoping to receive it sometime early in July.




I got mine a few days ago after I submitted a missing document in April. I think the decisions are rolling in now.




if you’re worried, check with them to make sure you weren’t missing any documents. I had to call them in the middle of the summer one year because I left a field blank rather than entering a 0 on one of the forms, which prevented them from processing the entire thing, and they had no kind of notification system for that.




I submitted my federal verification statement like a week late (early May) because I had no idea that was a thing, and they told me decisions should start rolling in soon...? Low key scared that it'll affect my fin aid




It’s not as bad as you might think. The weekly quizzes are straightforward if youve been paying attention, the in-class writings are only a page long, and the exams are fairly predictable (content and format is clearly given ahead of time). The homework assignments, although daily, usually only soak up an hour of time at most (and for the online assignments, you’re given two attempts to complete it and receive all answers after the first attempt, so it’s a guaranteed 100). The orals are probably the most stressful part, but there’s only two of them and they’re short. Grading is based on your raw percentage score in the class, aka no curving. I felt that they weren’t overly harsh with grading orals and essays. Your milage may vary depending on your instructor, of course. I had Monica Bevia, who was great. Overall, it was a good class and I learned a lot.




I took the exact same schedule freshman year- Spanish is not that bad with those courses especially if you have had a lot of experience with it in high school. I would definitely say that Chem 2150 is way harder than I expected (and an insane amount of work) and that I would definitely recommend that you just take 2070-2080.




Hey bud! Welcome to Cornell!

&#x200B;

**If you have any questions about project teams, feel free to PM me.** I'm more than happy to give you the low down, but I'd rather not publicly disclose what team I'm on. For now, take some more general info! Unfortunately, I can't give you much info on CS clubs or projects.

&#x200B;

Despite the idea of "business team" being, you know, business/econ majors, that's often not the case! We have had both business-y majors and engineering-y majors in our business team and they've all been lovely, capable people.

There's usually tons of room for folks who just have an interest in business and are good at finance management. I've noticed that business subteams have a high turnover rate, which is primarily either from 1) engineers on business teams wanting to do engineering versus spreadsheet and finance work 2) being somewhat separated from the rest of the team work and culture wise.

&#x200B;

Now going onto CS related work, there's often heavy competition between the project teams for CS/ECE related slots. Most of the project teams are heavy on physical building, so you'll often find a lot of Mech Es and there isn't really much need for a CS skillset unless you're looking into teams like AppDev which don't always have a physical project to coincide with their work (as far as I know). Our team *always* gets way more apps for CS/ECE work versus our other mechanical subteams because there just isn't enough demand for these roles from the project teams. You can absolutely join a mechanical subteam as a prospective CS or ORIE major, however! Most teams are just looking for folks who are willing to do the work.

&#x200B;

I guess lastly, this doesn't mean you shouldn't apply. If you're interested, best you give it a shot! Everyone is capable of being on a project team if they're interested in joining, but often times we can't accept everyone because we don't have enough work for them and it'd be unfair to join and do absolutely nothing.

Again, feel free to PM! This goes to anyone, because I am more than happy to help  demystify the process.

&#x200B;

edit: i've gotten PMed by 3 separate people. and i promise it's not a hassle! don't feel bad asking questions. i'd love to help out. :)




Delp is an excellent teacher and spends a lot of time working on curricula and training TAs and stuff. I don't know much about Swartz or relative workloads, but I recommend anything Delp teaches highly.




Personally hated the way Delp taught 1920, but she’s very nice and approachable.




Not really.. you have authorisation to work on campus and dining is usually always hiring. The maximum inconvenience you may face is not getting a job in the dining hall of your choice and having to walk some ways.

That being said, you should ideally focus on class and your work and make sure you can manage that before applying for a job as studying is priority is numero uno.




Use this website to find jobs on campus: [https://studentjobs.seo.cornell.edu/](https://studentjobs.seo.cornell.edu/)

That's what I did during the summer when I was an incoming freshman, and I was able to secure a job before I even got to campus. Best of luck!




I have three suggestions depending on your primary interests:

\- as a general note I believe taking 4 courses is best first semester because you need to settle into a new environment, make friends, join clubs, go to events, etc. It's important to remember that you literally have 4 years ahead of you and you can overload courses whenever you want. First semester is not the time to do it. Get yourself some friends/clubs/actually settle in so you don't get depressed. This is always overlooked by freshman but it's super important.

&#x200B;

1. Take CS 2110 and do Math 2230, with a plan to do CS 2802 second semester.  (I recommend this for you because you seem to like math and this will be worth your time).

This is if you love math/proofs/logic in general. Math 2230 is Theoretical Linear Algebra and is very proof heavy, with a lot of study and math involved. 2110 teaches you everything you need to know in terms of data structures and is good enough. It is not wise to do 2230 + CS 2112 at the same time, due to the heavy stress in 2230 problem sets as well as the excruciating pain in CS 2112 projects. 2230 is very theoretical and so is 2802 (discrete math honors). 

&#x200B;

2. Take CS 2112 and Math 2210, with a plan to do CS 2800 second semester.

This is if you're more into programming and are willing to bang your head into the wall at 4 am debugging your projects from 2112. Don't take Math 2210 as a joke. The linear algebra class in arts and sciences for the math major is still very proof heavy and very difficult. The second midterm exam average last year during the Fall was around 45-50%. 2800 is regular discrete math which is less proof heavy but still filled with proofs.  

&#x200B;

  3. Be a regular dude who wants to enjoy life and take CS 2110 + Math 2210 your first semester, and you can decide if you want more math second semester by doing CS 2800 or CS 2802.

Trust me, just because it's regular doesn't mean it's easy. You're at Cornell, not a community college. This is what most people do and is definitely still difficult, but should give you more flexibility to find good clubs to join and also figure out what you're interested in as you study deeper into your major. The vast majority of students take this pathway and it's very smart. It gives you time to go to Hackathons, try out for competitive academic clubs, do community service, make close friends, get ready to rush a frat, etc. whatever you want to do. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

In my opinion you should do #1 or #3. The choice is up to yours but I really want to stress mental health. Cornell hides its suicides so you don't hear about it and your GPA will drop because this is a top-tier college. Take it easy.  Also for math, second semester I suggest Math 2220 because multivariable calculus is just taken out of requirement and honors doesn't help you learn much more. There's no point.




I assume you meant MATH 2230, not 2030?

If so, as someone who took 2112 and 2230 my freshman fall, I can attest that it's definitely doable, if you're not planning on taking much else that semester.




I took it last semester and at the end of every class there are a few minutes where it would be possible to sleep but unfortunately you have to be pretty attentive for the rest of class but sometimes you'll just fall asleep anyway.




I wouldn’t recommend the class reading these other comments but I would recommend doing meditation on your own. You don’t have to do any of that weird stuff you can literally just sit down with legs crossed, your hands on your knees  or on your lap, and focus on your breath. For a full guide I suggest The Mind Illuminated by Culadasa (John Yates). It gives a complete rundown of what meditation is and how to do it without any of the religious stuff.




Cornell never lets you sleep




No, you need to keep humming for the entire duration...




I took “stress management and relaxation” years ago. I have no idea if it’s still offered, but it’s been one of the most helpful classes in my “grown-up” life.




I took it and fell asleep almost every time. Highly recommend.




Just be content that meditation counts as a PE in the first place 😂




Smoke before




The thing is, this is actually a safety concern cause online criminal can use the room’s photo and identify it now as Sheldon Court. With those two pieces of data linked together, it’s more than evident that I lived in mews and have no photos for you :( sorry




It's not that bad.... I lived there, and it's completely fine...




Came here looking for the same thing, if you get one pls lmk




*CKB (always)

I lived in Mews, which is practically the same room style. I used a mattress topper/pad/memory foam thing. It makes the bed more comfy.

Bed lifting isn't super necessary, but there is a way you can. Depends on how much stuff you want to put underneath...




In CKB the only bed lifting is raising it up to a bit above waist level. There's no lofting or anything like that. It's very common to allow for more storage space under the bed. Some students like a mattress topper, maybe 25% or so. I think the bed is quite soft, so I don't use one but that's going to be down to personal preference. I'd recommend waiting until you move in and buying one if you don't like how the bed feels. If you have any more questions about CKB or anything else I'd be happy to help!




Lifting your bed is a nice way to get a lot of extra floor space. The bed posts have little hooks on them so you just raise the bed to the desired height.




I didn't use a mattress topper nor lift my bed. Mattress topper is really if you just want to be more comfortable; one of my friends had a mattress topper and it was very soft and nice but just a luxury so I didn't get one. Bed lifting lets you put higher things underneath the bed like some racks or something, but it's not necessary, especially if you don't have a lot of stuff. I laid my suitcases flat and put them under the bed. With the closet and shelves, I had enough space.




You don’t really need to raise your bed, unless you think you will store a lot of tall boxes underneath or something. If you do decide to do it, I believe you put in a request before the semester starts and the maintenance staff does it at some point. I lived in ckb, it’s the best dorm!

Edit: I had a mattress topper, but it’s not really necessary in my opinion, but I do prefer harder beds, so it’s up to you




Wow he has not aged well




Bob Iger, the CEO of Disney and the highest compensated CEO today is an IC alum




We have Reggie from Nintendo. I think we are the real winners here.




And that pretty much sums up the difference between Cornell and Ithaca College alumni.




He looks like the sunflower from plants vs zombies




part 9 looking crisp




Literally on move in day (last August) I went to a firehouse subs and that documentary was playing on their TV. Coincidence?!? 🤔




There’s this website:
https://listings.offcampusliving.cornell.edu/

Or you can check out the Cornell Housing Facebook page




Hey, welcome to Cornell! and yeah, the facebook group is the best place to look, theres quite a few people on there making postings.




Either 1350 or 1440 is fine.  Take 1500 when you have space, it's a pure lab class (1440 and 1350 are 3 credits and don't have integrated labs like CHEM 2070/2080/etc. and are pure lectures instead).




This was my exact schedule freshman year (also HBHS). Ended up being challenging but definitely doable. As for 1500 I left that till the spring and will be taking 1440 this upcoming fall as a sophomore.




If you’re not interested in proofs and theory, engineering is the way to go. Apart from multi which, depending on who you talk to, is a shitshow, the rest is really quite manageable




Speaking to a CS friend who is more data science/ML oriented - take engineering linalg at the least. It is much more applied than the math department one so better when used with classes that require it (ML and it’s subsets).




Having dabbled in both A&S math and engineering math, I'd say go engineering unless proofs and theoretical stuff is your deal. If you're looking for the easiest way out, start with 1910/1920. 

In my first year I did arts calc 2 (MATH 1120) in the fall then engineering multi (1920) in the spring. Personally, I found that 1920 was really a plug-and-chug all the way through the final whereas the 1120 exams had questions that were abstract and proofy. I don't regret my choice to switch to engineering math as it's more on the applied side and perhaps more straightforward.

Based on what you've said it looks like engineering math is more your thing.




Take A&S, engineering math courses are too fuckin dull and easy




To get the actual minor, you would only need to complete the listed classes. Prerequisites are hardly ever enforced, so if you think you’d be fine in a class without them, I’d say you could probably go ahead and just take the class.




Which minor? With such little info I’ll say you just gatta take the courses that explicitly count towards the minor via the department’s website




[deleted]




Lol eight upvotes and no comments as if everyone is wondering the same thing.




the core is pretty strong in my opinion in that it will be interesting if you think econ as a subject is interesting. the electives are what you make of them and they can be hit or miss. it's not always clear which ones will be interesting but a lot (particularly 4000 levels) will branch off of certain topics from the core, so you can use that as a guide for what you may want to take.




If you wanna keep doing research with the same professor then ask them. Otherwise, just email the professors you're interested in doing research with. Mention that you want to do it for credit and if they take you on they'll help you set up getting the credit.




Depends on what you do. I just worked with one of the PhDs on their projected (then bounced around a bit in the lab). Others have had a research project in mind and had a professor “sponsor” them and guide them when needed. Need to talk to the professor though.




Yes




Yes, the goal is for students to use it to fulfill the requirement, which is why non-seniors get priority. They will add the 2000 level course next year I believe, which will allow you to satisfy the requirement




For "security reasons" Cornell never releases floor plans to dorms.




You have a window, twin bed, closet, and desk with drawers, and 2 trash cans. Not a lot of room tbh.




It looks nice.




just search youtube jesus




August 22, 8AM.  
https://registrar.cornell.edu/calendar/2019-2020




Schedule looks fine overall. If you're not really interested in the more theoretical side of linear algebra and are interested in applications and applying the math, you could consider Math 2940.




1. 16 credits is fine, also 1 of them is a PE so it's more like 15 academic.  
2. Distribution looks good since you have time for lunch every day.  You should be able to make it to all your classes with normal walking pace, only one that could maybe be an issue is Comstock -> Baker.  Usually this is only a problem if you have classes across campus from each other (like north campus to engineering quad or central campus to morrison area).
3. Some subjects don't follow the typical numbering scheme as closely for the first number.  2150 is honors general chem and one of the standard intro chem classes for chem majors.  2210 is part of the standard A&S math track for STEM majors, but more theoretical than the 1910-1920-2930-2940 engineering math track.  Check https://as.cornell.edu/general-recommendations-math-courses-0 for more information.  It seems 2210 is not required for the major so you can postpone it if you want.




I would take MATH 2940 instead, even if you’re planning on going to grad school. You don’t need the theoretical math for chemistry. Plus side, Townsend is teaching 2940 and he is a phenomenal lecturer. (u/ProfTownsend)




Responding to Q3 - if you're a chemistry major, you should definitely be taking CHEM 2150 if you have the option to this fall. 2150 puts you on a fast track out of general chemistry and if you did well in AP chem/etc in high school you'll be fine. There are a couple of old posts on this sub about 2150 but the gist of the class (when I took it with Wilson) was that the exams tended to be a time crunch but were doable if you took good notes in lecture and read the book.

As for math, I'd follow what other are saying and take engineering linear algebra if you're not into the proofy/theoretical side of math. They both will count for chemistry major requirements. Engineering math courses tend to be more plug-and-chug whereas arts math classes are a little more esoteric in what they cover. People complain a lot about 2210/2230, particularly the latter. If you haven't already done multivariate calculus, I'd recommend starting with MATH 1920 in engineering for your major requirements.




Lol a Friday afternoon lab. You're going to hate it.




From the Bio/premed side, it looks like a good schedule. I’m not sure about from the CS/Info side tho. Keep in mind that 1440 and 2070 will eat up a lot of your time, but I think 17 credits is good.




As you are an incoming freshman, I seriously doubt that you have the qualifications to take PE 1300. Do you have any prior experience bowling? I've seen overconfident freshmen sign up for the course, not manage to get a single strike, then be forced to practice till 3 am in the morning trying to get it right. Most burn out before thanksgiving. 

I kid. But this is really a question for your advisor.




I think this might be a little too much just because this is 4 STEM classes which could overwhelm you a bit, 1440 and 2070 together take a significant amount of time, and I know friends who have taken CS 1110 and say it's a very time consuming class. But you have the add/drop period to determine if this works for you! Do you plan on taking an FWS this semester?




Totally fine - good balance between the two fields (CS on premed track here). Enjoy 2070 with Dr Lee :))




A bit too much for your first semester but you can drop after first few weeks.




Hey! I'm also an Info Sci premed (but I'm also double majoring in Comp Bio), nice to meet ya! Big respect to people who are in those dual fields! CS wise that looks fine, and I agree that the premed side is hard but it should be fine. Don't forget you have to maintain a high GPA in those premed classes, which is the hard part. The thing is, those classes will definitely eat your time, but if you plan on doing IS + premed, you will have to take more classes than expected in a shorter span of time. Just requires a lot of planning though. The FWS drop for first semester is a smart choice imo. Also, you will probably have to get used to the diversity and type of information you get from the two branches of science, and learn to understand things in different ways if you want to push on. Feel free to dm me if you have questions!




I personally would recommend taking a lighter class in place of 1440. 1440 is not a class with a lot of work per se, but there's a lot to study and it could add a lot of stress when a prelim is near. 

Currently, you have 2070 lab reports and 2040 problem sets that will drain a few hours each every week. 1110 projects are probably around biweekly but this class also probably also comes out to up to 10 hours a week. An easy class would be welcome. Especially with the added time commitments of bowling and 1007

Perhaps take an FWS, especially if you don't have AP credit as you want to get those over with.




This schedule does not seem well balanced for a first semester freshman. You're going to have labs for both CS1110 and 2070 that will eat up a lot of time, especially 2070 if you intend on doing well on the lab portion of the class, worth the equivalent of one prelim mind you. If you're completely new to programming it will also be a challenging first couple weeks. CS1110 is not a very difficult class overall, but it does require you to go to lecture and fully understand each project.  If I were you I would drop the bio or the info sci. Probably drop the bio because a lot of people take 2070 and realize that they don't want to continue with premed and bio/chem. So if you figure that out early then you can save yourself from taking 1440 which is a lot of memorization and frankly a frustrating and not particularly stimulating class.




then you just pay the amount. 

Work study isn't real aid; it's just a scam so Cornell can claim they meet "100% of demonstrated need" when they actually don't




Work study can be a good way to get into a research lab or project. Before you decide not to use it, see if you can find a way to use work study to help you transition.




Just don't do anything first semester, then. I earned my work study money working only second semester of my first year.




You don't have to pay of you don't do work study (for example if your aid says you have to pay $5k a semester and there's also a section that says you qualify for $1k in work-study that does not mean you owe Cornell $6k a semester if you don't work using work-study program,you still owe $5k a semester. What the work-study means is that you qualify for work on campus that they can pay you with the money that were granted to you for work-study, so they can use money from the work-study to pay you instead of money from their budget.


Someone correct me if I'm wrong.




From what I’ve heard, Vietnamese is a lot of work but you learn a lot very quickly! After only a single semester of study, my friend was surprised at how well he managed to get by in Vietnam. I’m assuming that if the class time is listed as TBA, that means the students themselves set the schedule. That’s been my experience with the Southeast Asian language classes!




Viet is awesome the prof is great!!!




This is fine.

You have 4 years to cover requirements, don’t rush anything.




This looks good! Gov and Info Sci are both majors that are really easy to complete in a short amount of time so don’t worry too much about scrambling to meet every requirement immediately




Fitness plan




Fitness plan is decent, but the weather is usually fine for running until like early November or so. Might be something to consider when gauging how long you want the gym membership (you definitely should consider it for the Spring semester, it's going to be really cold for most of it). But the weather can be fickle, so who really knows. I'm not a huge fan of the gyms here, but I might just be picky.

My personal opinion is you can sign up for a PE class where you can use the gym or do some other exercise (ex. not bowling) and gauge the weather and facilities (and your schedule) for yourself to see if membership is worth it. Kills two birds with one stone.




I thought the Cornell Fitness Plan was walking the big campus, day in & day out?




Northside wine and spirits downtown. Nothing beats it, but it’s obviously a little far from campus




Heard that you can get free booze at those big buildings on Sundays.




Triphammer, but they are ruthless with IDs.




Caving is a lot fun, though you kinda have to get lucky with the group you get. The people I got were mostly OK, but pretty forgettable.




I personally found 1092 to be not worth the time - would have been better off studying alone.




Caving was one of the best classes I took at Cornell. In fact I still talk with one of the guys I met there my freshmen year.

AEWs are good if you need the extra help and awful if you don’t. I took the multivariable calc one and didn’t need it, which made it suck, because it was just another obligation with mandatory attendance.




I thought Caving was fun, too! I agree about the people though, it definitely impacts the experience. My friends had better groups than I did; there was this one guy that wouldn’t stop trying to “get lucky” with me down there. I don’t know if it was the weird acoustics down there or what but I’m 95% sure he was huffing air duster and playing with himself every single time. It’s a great class, but make sure you have a backup in case you drop it when someone in the class is addicted to inhalants and won’t stop poking you.




I dunno anyone who's taken ENGRI 1337. I will say that what ENGRI you take doesn't seem to matter that much; most people I talk to say that their ENGRI classes were pretty forgettable, annoyingly difficult, or both. I'm a large proponent of taking classes that interest you instead of taking the easy way out, but in the case of ENGRIs, taking the easy way out might actually not be the worst idea (ex. taking Earthquakes, ridiculously easy class) since idk how much you'll actually be getting from the other ENGRIs.

That being said, you should definitely look for a second opinion regarding this class since it might just be the odd one out and it might be good. I would specifically ask if any of the content here overlaps with the important stuff you'll be learning in BEE 1200 anyway, which you'll be taking in the spring. In BEE 1200, they'll teach you all about the major, what schedules you should make, what prospective jobs you can get, etc. If that's the kind of information you want, then ENGRI 1337 probably isn't super necessary.




How good an AEW is depends on the instructor. Try it out during the first week of class and then decide if you want to stick with it.




It might be easier to help out if we know your major.




Also, idk your background, but Gen Chem is a pre req to orgo (lecture and lab), so you probably can't take those unless you somehow got 2 semesters of credit of gen chem




10




I budgeted my BRBs with a 10 meal plan and 100% of my food in freshman year was through the meal plan alone. You just need to be willing to cut down to 2 meals a day (which is very manageable). I definitely would’ve gotten freshmen 15 if I chose the 14 plan.




Central campus only has one meal swipe location, so it's less likely to use swipes for lunch.  Many people dont eat breakfast in dining halls, so most are fine with just seven for dinners, and brbs for lunch.  Your specific needs may vary.




I’d go with 10. You can always upgrade if you find you’d be using 14, but you can only downgrade in like the first week.




10 is the perfect number. Have breakfast in your dorm, you won't have the energy to get to the dining hall before class. Get lunch on campus with BRBs, the only on-campus dining hall is okenshits and you do not wanna eat lunch there. Dinner at the dining hall every day is 7 meals a week. Brunch on the weekends is 2 more. And then you have 1 extra for a breakfast once a week or something.




I started with 14, after a while I realized that I wasn't eating breakfast, and when I was, it was at trillium. Switched to the 10 and had no problems, and the extra BRBs came in handy at trillium. If they haven't changed the meal plans from 2 years ago, it wouldn't hurt to start on 14 and decide to switch later.




Don’t do meal plans. Paying w credit card would be cheaper




i would do 10. i did 14 the first semester but always had a 2 or so swipes left over at the end of the week. 10 is fine and definitely worth it with the extra BRBs, the only thing is you have to consciously think a little more about how many swipes you are using




Start off with 14 and see if you actually finish them, note that first few weeks you'll go to dining hall more often than middle of the semester. You can change to 10 if you think you won't use it that much. I had 10 and still didn't finish all the swipes.




10 between 10 and 14. People who say just use a credit card have a point; it can be cheaper using BRBs since iirc a 10/14 meal plan is about the equivalent of paying $12 per meal with tax (assuming no breakfast) last time I checked. That being said, getting a meal plan freshmen year might be worth it just for the social aspect alone. Most of your friends will probably be getting meal plans so it's probably in your best interest to get one as well unless you really need to save money. Plus on North Campus there's like maybe one place where you can eat dinner without using meal swipes, and eating at dining halls without meal swipes costs more than $12 so yeah.




Run the numbers. The meal plans are grossly cost inefficient compared to plain BRBs.




I went 7 and was fine (to be fair I did cook occasionally)- start low and you can always bump up if you need to.




TEN




Definitely 10




10 is honestly way too much so dont go with the 14, youll find you probably dont eat a lot of lunches in dining halls brbs are more useful




Unlimited




That's a pretty specific question that someone would be unlikely to know unless they had the same situation come up and had been concerned about it themselves. Just from a general healthcare perspective though, I'm sure PP is aware of how their services can be sensitive for students, so if you call and ask them directly they could tell you what the default process is and anything they might have to make it more confidential if available.




They can make it come up as something anonymous or vague. I would talk to PP.




[deleted]




You can do it




Pretty solid schedule imo; just be aware that 2070 eats up a lot of time, especially if chemistry isn’t your strong suit (though it’s definitely doable if you put in the work). The lab reports are pretty tedious as well. Other than that, you’re looking good! Welcome to the fam!




2 bio and 2070 seems like a lot of work but then again I wasn't a premed.




17 credits is a lot for your first semester. I would advise 15 or less so you have time to adjust and socialize. I was premed and BSOC major but this is my opinion




As for a PE I would recommend checking out a rock climbing class, there’s at least one every day including weekends, so you have options (that is, which day you want. You can’t switch sections week to week). There’s also a few outdoor classes that go for a weekend or for fall break so the class time is very condensed and doesn’t get in the way too much.




I would advise you drop micro from that for your first semester here unless you've taken AP Chem before. I have not personally taken it but from what I understand it's not a cake walk and 1350 + 2070 + FWS will keep you plenty busy. 

1500 is a joke of a class and only requires that you show up (when I say show up I mean just show up you don't even have to pay attention). 

I would also recommend 1070 as I thought it was helpful. 

As for as for PE, I know quite a few people who took bowling and were happy with it.




lol no




No. But you can take an astronomy class for physical sciences! They’re easy and fun (from what I’ve heard)

Also, Cornell is going to start offering an astrobiology minor soon, so I’m sure there are astronomy classes you can take to satisfy the biological sciences requirement.




Hey there, I'm an international rising sophomore student studying business at a uni in Singapore but looking to apply to ILR in October for Spring Transfer.

Demographics: East Asian Female

HS GPA: No exact number but more or less straight A-/A's and graduated with honors

College GPA: 3.79 (classes are all graded on a curve though)

ECs: Involved in some cultural clubs and the consulting club at my school, and in high school my ECs weren't that great but I had around 3 summer internships at NGOs/start-ups.

Applied to Dyson for Fall Transfer but didn't get in because I don't think I was competitive enough, but I realized that I wanna be able to pursue my other interests aside from business and ILR offers a lot of flexibility which I love, and a sense of community that I find lacking currently. I'm technically going into my third year of college as I did one year of uni in the country (GPA was ~3.85) where I'm from but I started as a freshman in Singapore because they don't accept transfers.

I'm currently interning at a tech start-up helping the underprivileged this summer for ~5 weeks.

Also had two paternal uncles who went to Cornell but not sure how relevant it is (probably not at all lmao) since neither one is my dad lmao




Is the swim test only for ROTC majors or is it required for other students?




I am a white male in PA applying to colleges next year.

Stats:

GPA: 4.79 W (My school doesn't do UW but I'm assuming it's close to a 3.9-4.0)

SAT: 1470 (700 EBRW 770 Math)

ACT: hoping for 33+

SAT II's: Physics (waiting for score) Math 2 (waiting for score)

APs: Mechanics (4) Stat (waiting for score) English Language (waiting for score) E and M (waiting for score) Calc BC (waiting for score)

Senior year course load: AP Gov AP Lit Senior Seminar in Math AP Comp Sci A AP Chemistry AP Human Geo Japanese 2H

ECs

Science Olympiad (freshman year to present) - member/competitor for most invitationals

NHS (senior year) - member

Student Council (freshman, junior-senior year)- member/cochair of finance committee

Track - varsity since sophomore year with decent times

XC - varsity since junior year

Swim - varsity letter freshman year

Volunteer at local environmental center \~30 hours so far

Volunteer at local animal shelters \~100 hours

Raising money for marathon fundraiser (goal is 3k for charities/nonprofits)

High School Banner/Newspaper - editor of sports section

High School comedy newspaper - cofounder

Band/Orchestra (freshman year to present) - first chair tuba

Brass Ensemble (started in junior year) - principle tubist

Jazz Band (freshman year - present) - bass trombonist

Math Club - member since junior year lolll

Ran in half marathons sophomore year and junior year

Awards:

5th place overall in males 12-15 for Philadelphia Half Marathon

Most improved outdoor track runner sophomore year

Science olympiad medals

prob AP scholar

Leadership award

Jobs/Internships:

Starbucks (sophomore year - present) \~ 15-30 hours per week

Intern at local startup \~ 30 hours per week in the summer; will work from home in the school year

Hooks:

Various medical issues including eight concussions and scoliosis (had to wear a brace for all of high school)

Single mom home with little family members (the ones that were around for most of my life were not with me throughout most of high school)

Essays: not completed yet but if interested in reading DM me!

LORS: Forgot to mention LORS! They should be pretty good and are from my AP Stat and AP E and M teacher who I am working on a project with.

My intended major is either Stat or CS with a minor in film and physics. I am also currently producing short films if that adds anything.




Hello Cornell Students! I'm looking to see if anyone on this subreddit could help offer me some insight on their experience transferring to Cornell as a Sophomore/Junior, specifically to CALS. I will be attending a four-year college next year and am from California. I was previously waitlisted, but was not given the guaranteed transfer option. Please message me if you could help in any way (I will PM stats as well, if needed)! Thank you.




Hi, I am a junior who would likely ED to Cornell. I would like to let the admissions officer know that I am a prospective student and that I like Cornell. I just got the email of the admission officers. I plan on including that I love the campus and will be applying in the email, but I'd like to add something so it does not seem like I'm sending the email for the sake of it. Any suggestions as to what I could include. Ask them a question??




Hi! I'm a prospective undergrad looking to ed into the engineering college.

Demographics: East Asian female

HS GPA- 92.18

EC- head of electronics on FRC robotics team, xc member, research at nearby college, summer at metlife doing girls who code, and spending this summer at mit learning 3d printing, worked at law office for like a few months, math team for 3 yrs

SAT- 1520 800 math 720 english

SAT2- bio 750, waiting on math

APS- 5 on world history, 4 on bio, waiting for physics, compsci, english

I have one extremely low grade in precalc. Will that hurt my chances a lot if all my other math grades were 95+?

My intended major is biomedical engineering and I want to be on the pre vet track




I'm currently a rising high school senior and I want to apply to Cornell for CS. If I hopefully get into the Science or Engineering college what are my chances of getting CS as a major at the end of my freshman year. Whats the acceptance rate of freshmen undegrads who apply to be a CS major?




1440 and 1350 in the same semester is a bit of a heavy load. You might want to consider switching one of them out. You could switch them with the marine bio course, or you could look at other cals requirements. 

Do you have a biology student advisor? If so, have you asked them this question?




Switch out either 1440 or 1350 for that oceanography course. 1440 and 1350 in the same semester especially as your first semester is a rough schedule.

FYI BIOEE 1540 (Intro to Oceanography) is an intro class designed for people of all majors, and is often taken as an "easier" class. So if you were expecting a STEM this isn't it.




ChemE here. ChemE requires 8 credits of gen chem to affiliate. Lots of ChemE's take their AP credit for 2090, but still have to take either Chem 2150 (fall, honors) or 2080 (spring). If you don't take the AP credit, you'll be stuck with taking both 2090 and 2080 fall and spring. I'm an advocate of taking all the credit you can, especially if you got a 5. Whether you take 2150 or 2080 doesn't matter in terms of setting you up as a successful ChemE. 2150 (at least when I took it) was mostly prospective chem majors and ChemEs, and most of the people I interacted with in my lab day ended up being ChemE's, so that was nice - and you'll definitely meet a lot of these people in Engri 1120 too. It's typically curved to a B+ (standard honors chem class curving), but there are only like 75 in the class (this past fall semester). 2080 is what all the pre-meds and bio majors will also take and is curved to a B (standard normal chem class curving). There are still plenty of ChemE's who either did not take the AP credit or elected not to take chem their first semester who do this. You're just also with a lot of people (over 700 this past spring semester) who you might never encounter again and are more interested in getting good grades than your typical engineering counterpart. But if you think about it, to get an A in 2150, you might need to be the top 15 out of 75, versus in 2080, where it might be more like the top 100 out of 700. And if you want a B+, you a little below average in 2150, but definitely above average in 2080. Both options have their pros and cons. 


I would say 3 engineering core classes + FWS is a good and typical courseload freshman fall. CS can definitely wait, and you'll have priority to sign up for it since you are an engineering freshman. Both are designed for people with absolutely no programming experience, but obviously people come in with varying amounts. Honestly, it doesn't matter if you go for python or matlab for ChemE. I would go for python for a better general introduction into programming, and from that you should be able to pick up any basics of matlab or any other simple language you might need later, but again, neither will put you at a disadvantage for ChemE. 


I would definitely take Intro to ChemE if you are considering ChemE but are not sure. Prof Alabi is supposed to be good too. 


I would say maybe fall: 

* Chem 2150
* EngrI 1120
* FWS
* Math 1920

Spring:

* CS 1110
* Math 2930 - actually useful for ChemE
* Maybe physics if you need that requirement? Maybe Chem 3590 to get orgo out of the way? Maybe a bio class for BME/the bio requirement for ChemE?
* Something not STEM so your courseload isn't too heavy, unless you feel you can handle it. Worst case: sign up for an extra class and drop it if it's too much

or

fall: 

* CS 1110 for Walker White (no personal experience, but supposed to be good prof)
* EngrI 1120
* FWS
* Math 1920

Spring:

* Chem 2080
* Math 2930 - actually useful for ChemE
* Maybe physics if you need that requirement? Maybe a bio class for BME/the bio requirement for ChemE?
* Something not STEM so your courseload isn't too heavy, unless you feel you can handle it. Worst case: sign up for an extra class and drop it if it's too much

And who knows? Maybe you'll learn that you love CS and didn't really like ChemE, and then you'll save yourself from taking the extra chem class that other engineering majors (even BME) don't need. 

The more I think about this, I might actually encourage you to take CS and Intro to ChemE in the fall since you are unsure. Like I said, CS or Chem in the fall versus spring won't really make a difference for ChemE, but you might discover new interests or dislikes before making more decisions. I know someone who took Intro to ChemE and 2090 their freshman fall, decided they didn't like what ChemE included, and ended up doing a non-ChemE internship at Exxon as an ORIE. Take some time to explore options so you don't regret your major choice later on.




[deleted]




CS is required, either CS 1110 or CS 1112.  They are both oriented towards students with little to no prior CS experience.  In the past, some of the discussion sections are specifically for students without any experience; I don't see that text on classes.cornell.edu anymore so I'm not sure if they're still there, but you should be fine regardless.

I wasn't a cheme so not sure where to find the most up to date information, but check https://www.cheme.cornell.edu/cbe/intranet/undergraduate-program and/or the engineering handbook if you already have it.  According to the requirements there, you can use AP credit + take CHEM 2080 or CHEM 2150 to satisfy the 1 year of chemistry requirement.  2150 is an accelerated honors course so probably harder than 2090.




I would skip the language for now and definitely take the FWS this semester because FWS offerings are much better (more options and more interesting) in the fall.




2090 is poorly taught, but the content isn’t too bad. Since you got a 5 on the AP, I wouldn’t worry. I took the course with Abruña last fall. Lectures and HW were pretty worthless, just study a lot for the prelims. Hot tip: there’s a Cornell engineering peer tutor service(easy to find with google) for a lot of the introductory courses. If you feel uncomfortable in a class, definitely check them out. I met with a guy for chem a few times and he had a lot of extra resources(Old prelims, worksheets) for practice problems that really helped. 

I’m also not a chemE, so idk if you have to take it or not. I took 2090 with a guy who was a senior though, so if you opt not to take it freshman year you can take it later. I wouldn’t recommend skipping it just because you’re worried about doing it combined with 1920 though. Honestly, neither class had too much HW(2090 was maybe 1-2 hours a week and 1930 was maybe 3), they just have some tough exams. They’re perfectly fine to take together




as a former chemE you do not have to take 2090. you can take 2150 (honors gen chem), or take 2090/2080, but you can use ap credit and/or case exams to get out of both of these classes.




Hats




Are the hats part of the uniform




[deleted]




By law, all residential rooms must have a window.




Do Cornell students usually go home during the Labor Day weekend? (Especially those who live in the NYC area)




What is this? Some festival?




Engl 1168 wasn't terrible. Each section is diff, so be aware. Also, the creative writing or short stories fws wasn't too bad apparently? Generally they say to avoid the english dept, but sometimes it isnt too bad depending on the grad student teaching it.

(I got to watch 2 ghibli films for one of mine)




I took MUSIC 1701 and it was quite easy. Low reading volume, since we listened to a lot of music instead, and at least in my opinion soft grading on essays.




Psych 1140 had the best instructor and was graded super easily, basically everyone had an A/A+ at the end




Any film class




I did IB SL Spanish B and got a 5. Was placed into span 1230




DC made sense for me because I cared more about getting internship experience than traveling. But keep in mind that you need to find yourself an internship, and you might not end up with your first choice.




The Cornell in Washington program keeps you busy. They have weekly activities. I just lived there during an internship in DC, didn’t take classes. But the location of the dorms are really really nice. 20 min walk to anywhere.




Hey! I did the Cornell in Washington program in the fall and studied abroad in the spring. Shoot me a PM I’d be happy to talk about both!




Stalk Steven Strogatz at his next public appearance




Seems a little late to look for research during the summer. What subject are you trying to find research in maybe I can help direct you?




I find younger professors reply to emails faster... if they're on top of their sht (mine took literally a day). Some can take 2 weeks to reply (how long it took my friend).

Also, choose profs with a sizeable amount of grad students in their lab... it shows that they have funding. What major are you? Literally look through all of the profs websites in your department. Cold email them saying, "hi i am a ___ major interested in research in the fall. i looked at your website and saw ____ and it seemed interesting. Is there a project I could potentially join?"




So you said you're AEP, but are emailing astro ppl. What kind of work are you looking to do specifically? Is it only astro?




For future reference, CUPD hands out numbered tags you can put on your keychain so if someone finds them, they can be returned by mail to barton. Then they will call you to come get them.




[deleted]




Excel is certainly important for many jobs, but absolutely no one cares if you are certified in PowerPoint or Word. From my experience, it is assumed that you know how to use these already for most jobs. I'd say put the Excel one on, but be ready for questions about it if you are doing something quant-heavy for a business. Excel tests are not unheard of. I have no experience with MS Access, so I can't comment there, aside from the fact that most database work I have seen has been through plain old SQL.




I mean, yes... You can put them on your LinkedIn and resume. There are certificate courses at Cornell, which is "lower" on the credit-requirements than a minor, which I believe is what you're referring to.




i'm across the country so can't make it but i wish you luck, you'll definitely kill it - i saw you once at school and I thought you were hilarious




I might have an interview in the city that day. Posting to remind me to come if I’m there




Try to find a sublet?




You should try searching the rest of the subreddit for very similar posts




i took 1350 first semester. I think it’s pretty fine either way whether you do one or the other first. They both help when taking the other class the  semester after




Im here... uwu hie....




Emailing someone from the college to get it sorted is probably your best bet at this point.




Don’t fret homie u don’t need to officially declare till soph year. Just shoot them an email




Thanks guys!




Out of curiosity, what's your major?




Yes this is true they mark you wrong no matter what




Lol for some advisors... Yeah kinda. Neither of my advisors really ever tried to reach out to me, or have ever given me access to any industry connections, which kinda woulda been super fucking helpful the last few years. But Prof. Kozen gave me an extremely comprehensive rundown of the grad school process.




I didn't like my first assigned advisor, so I requested to switch to a different one. My second advisor put me in contact with a faculty member and essentially got me the research job in my first year which would eventually put me in the place I am today in grad school. I also picked my research group in grad school based on my opinion of my advisor. It's been great. Seek out good advisors, they are worth their salt.




Wait I thought OP meant the fact that the “correct answer” is true when it should be false




It really depends on the advisor you get - as a freshman my advisor wasn’t in my major so I didn’t get a helpful one until I officially declared. Once I did, they were absolutely all of these things.




Subtle flex that you got into Dyson 😜




After I affiliated with my major, I chose my advisor to be the prof I do research with... down the line, I'm def going to be reaching out to him for class advice and stuff about grad school.




I didn’t take it, but yeah tho will receive 4 credits if you pass




I took the placement exam and passed. I received 4 credits for it on my transcript. I took AB Calc in highschool but didn't do very well on the AP exam. I decided to switch majors so I studied all of winter break (3 years since having taken calculus) and then took the placement exam at the beginning of the spring semester. The placement exam tests very fundamental calculus. You'll have to know all the basic differentiation rules, basic related rate problems, and a full understanding of limits, and l'hopitals rule. It is a very short exam. If you plan on taking it, use this as your resource:[http://www.math.harvard.edu/\~knill/teaching/math1a\_2014/handouts.html](http://www.math.harvard.edu/~knill/teaching/math1a_2014/handouts.html). It comes with exams too which you can use to test yourself. If you go through every lecture you will be able to pass without a doubt.




I failed the test but my friend had passed the test.




Make sure to wear a green shirt for good luck




Hi! This class is largely literature based, so if that isn’t your thing, I’d avoid it (although literary arts is an A&S requirement). We read the Homeric texts, the Oedipal plays, and some other comedies and tragedies. The class wasn’t bad at all in terms of workload (one set of 3-4 weekly questions that required a paragraph response for each, one close reading essay of 4-6 pages, and one final essay of 8-10 pages). My professor was so awesome, but the course roster shows that the professor has changed, so idk how he is (he might also change the format of the class, but probably not. The course was first taught by a now professor-emeritus, and the overall concept of the course is kind of special to him it seems.) Overall, I’d definitely recommend! And the class is for freshmen only, so it’s nice to have everyone in your class be in the same position as you :) I made a few friends in my discussion section too!




So many things - info sci is a super versatile degree. You'll need to sell yourself a bit more than, say, having a standard Cornell brand Econ or Cornell brand CS degree, and will definitely need to do more soul searching to determine what you actually want to do as a job, but you'll be able to make connections between different disciplines that more siloed degrees might not achieve. This will help immensely as you enter the job search and interview rounds. Based on your history, you are still pretty early along in school, but trust that degrees which balance soft skills (cultural / historical / policy analysis; writing!!!) with more hard knowledge (eg. programming, data analysis) make you a very attractive candidate for a lot of jobs. You just need to embrace the ambiguity of not having that straight shot funnel that people in CS / Econ expect.




With those two major combos you can do anything in IT/business tech. Pure software to data analyst to actuary to quant and finance stuff as you mentioned. And honestly you can go into other fields as well with that.




Error 404: Not Found




Honestly, there are so many paths you can take. I am doing content marketing things for my summer job and impressing my boss by using the Google Sheets scripting language to write some simple functional programs (yay 3110) to map functions across cells automatically.




Do you even know what investment banking is? What quants do? Those are two completely different tracks and I know basically nobody that has both skillsets and is interested in both. If you're serious about one or the other I would reconsider your major to something that caters to those recruiting teams




I wouldn't recommend taking both 2112 and 2800 and presumably 1-2 other classes your first semester. 2110/2800 would be fine, but 2112/2800 is a lot. I would consider going down to 2110 or else taking 2802 in spring.




There's always the placement exam during orientation if you get a 4 on the AP exam. In general, if you have significant programming experience already, the major is willing to work with you if you don't want to take 1110.




I know someone who transferred to engineering CS from the hotel school and skipped CS 1110 despite not having AP credit. He ended up having to work pretty hard in 2110 but did well in it and is now on track to graduating on time. Idk if you have to petition to skip though. Either way, if you can do well in 2110/2112 without doing 1110, I don’t see why they won’t let you skip 1110.




Check with the major or college for the details on AP credit.  Unless they specifically say you cannot use AP credit to fulfill a requirement, then you can use it.  For example, here's the wording of one of the footnotes for the biological sciences major: "Advanced placement biology credits are not accepted for substitution or placement out of any introductory biology course."  CS doesn't have something like that for 1110 so you will be fine.

I only know of a few people who took 2112 and 2800 their first semester here; it's not something that's common, even in people taking 2112.




Do you work with any grad students in the professor's lab? What kind of ML bc I have links to a bunch of resources.




If you’re interested in doing an individualized instruction class, Dr. Campbell is super nice and approachable (she knew my name before I had ever even talked to her) and is the professor in charge of biog 1445.  I never talked to any of my chem professors bc the lectures are so large and i never went to office hours.




Tom Silva.  Cares more about you learning than you doing well on exams.  Will individually curve grades if he feels you've put a lot of effort in that might not be reflected on a test.  Awesome guy who loves being friends with students




Stephen Jesch for BIOMG 4400 was very approachable, and I learned a lot.

Rania Abou-Kandil for microbiology was great as well.

Both had great office hours and were helpful.




Linda Nicholson (BIOMG 6310) is really nice, welcomes people to talk with her even for non-academic things, taught well.  
Also, Stephen Jesch (BIOMG 4400), had the most casual atmosphere of any class I've taken but still learned a lot.  Would recommend for the lab requirement.  
Tomas Arias for physics, as well.  Very very good instructor and friendly, but he mostly teaches the very large introductory E&M classes, which makes him a bit harder to approach than the others.




Unpopular opinion but I love my guy Tom Rutledge. His exams were hard as hell but he taught the material well and held regular office hours to help students.




[deleted]




The bioee1780 profs (Jeremy and Abby) were both pretty great. Some of the bionb2220 profs, but not all




You just have to wait they took a bit to update mine




Email the Registrar (either college) with this exact wording. They'll help you out!




I'm not sure about the campus specifically, but House of Merlot performs weekly at the Range (I believe) and Two Tequilas and A Gin perform often all over town. There's a lot of drag in Ithaca.




the lgbt resource center did a drag series event this past semester so i’d be on the look out this year to see if they do anything similar. filthy gorgeous was also a thing, but it’s handled not by haven but by other students. haven just gives money. albany and buffalo also usually host big name drag stars. i think bianca del rio will be around this fall semester in one of those cities if you’re looking for a road trip!




We haven’t really had any in the past year besides the LGBT resource centers event series which was cool, but I’m thinking Haven will do more drag stuff this year since people are interested! Were you thinking to watch drag or to have the opportunity to learn/perform for students?




Took a Physics major. Would not recommend.




Astro 1110 with Squyres...a little harder than expected but gives really great insight into the solar system. It’s taught by Professors that LED the freakin Mars Rover project and they often give live updates on projects they’re workin on now, which is awesome. 

I also took Oceanography which is a cake walk and teaches you a ton about climate change and how humans effect the earth’s ecosystem.




oceanography, easy and pretty interesting lol. he posts lectures online




Astro 106: Special Relativity and Cosmos. All you need is basic algebra, trig, and a basic understanding of equations for motion. Problem sets are pretty easy and Professor Brazier is really good and insightful.




Took Phys 1116. Great class. Doubt that helps you much though.




Show your dad this (look up the salary and job info for information science in each of these reports) if he really thinks all info science majors become librarians. I don't think there's even a single info science major who became a librarian.

[https://cals.cornell.edu/sites/cals.cornell.edu/files/shared/documents/OAP/PostGraduateReport2017%20v3.pdf](https://cals.cornell.edu/sites/cals.cornell.edu/files/shared/documents/OAP/PostGraduateReport2017%20v3.pdf)

[https://www.engineering.cornell.edu/sites/default/files/users/user247/UG%20Primary%20Status%20by%20major%20inc%20salary.pdf](https://www.engineering.cornell.edu/sites/default/files/users/user247/UG%20Primary%20Status%20by%20major%20inc%20salary.pdf)

Most information science majors work in technology and are paid much higher than the average cornell grad. You can also look up the other past post grad reports at Cornell if you're curious. Most info science people I know worked in product management, consulting, analytics and data science,  UX, technology,  etc. Doing a simple linkedin search also shows that a lot of info science people are doing very well post graduation.

Information science at Cornell versus other universities is way more technical and ahead of its field imo.




What are you interested in? The tracks you listed are the most popular destinations for info sci grads but it doesn’t mean you can’t do other things.




I did information science. I had job opportunities in both UX design and Software Engineering. You can do either or relatively easily. You can also go into Data Science. I have a few friends who went to Microsoft after graduation for PM roles. Salaries are pretty good, my offer was around 150k, I had another friend who got a 170k offer, etc. You won't die broke.




[deleted]




Supposedly e-scooters are coming, so you can trip over them in c-town after a night at Level B.




Uber and Lyft are pretty widely used. There’s also LimeBike for nice summer days.




These responses make me so happy. I distinctly remember in 2016, when I was so fed up with my umpteenth asshole taxi driver when he thought uber would be in Ithaca, and he guffawed, "Those things will never be here. Never."

Fuck you fucker taxi drivers. GOD they were so awful.




Yes, if you’re in PSP you cannot use them though, fast way to get kicked out or in trouble




I don't think the scheduled ride feature of Uber works in Ithaca yet.  If you require that a ride at a specific time in the future, you're probably better off calling a cab for an appointment.  Otherwise, Uber/Lyft work quite well.




[deleted]




i believe theres an ithaca summer league




Honestly, I would forego a meal plan and cook if you have a kitchen. Dining plans are way overpriced, and you can control what goes into your food more if you make it yourself. That's what I'm doing next semester. It's way harder to do in the dorms, though.




I did this this year, ate 1200 calories a day and was on the west campus meal plan. Becker almost always has grilled chicken, which you can add to a salad. Trillium also has a decent salad bar. I essentially only ate salads and lean meats, and grilled chicken sandwiches with various veggies on wheat bread from goldies. Becker also has shitty desserts which helped because I wasn’t tempted to eat them.




I have an MS in Nutrition and doing a PhD now. PLEASE DO NOT DO THIS without consulting with a nutritionist.  You hear some terrible advice on the internet (someone here is telling you to not eat anything and just take the proper supplements. they got 10 upvotes. this is literally a recipe to die).

&#x200B;

The diet industry and its associated media (essentially most of what you find on the internet) really doesn't understand human biology. They usually vastly underreport the amount of fuel most people need. This can be really dangerous and, for your purposes, inefficient.  Even non-affiliated TDEE calculators can be super inaccurate because they're dealing with statistical averages (and usually those numbers are poorly aggregated) rather than your own specific needs. 

&#x200B;

If you undereat, you just train your body to use calories less efficiently and your body will slow down your metabolism. You won't lose weight. If you do, it might not be long term. And you might even damage your heart and bones.

I would consult with a dietician first and if possible get your metabolic rate tested. BMI means nothing. It was invented by a Belgian mathematician in the 19th century. You need to know precisely how much /your/ specific body burns in a day, not the body of some abstract mathematical average. I would also have some blood work done. Some people are healthy in larger bodies (and unhealthy in small ones). This is not necessarily the case for you but I would look into the health at every size movement. If your blood work comes back normal, you feel good, and have energy, this might be your body's happy weight. But if your bloodwork shows high cholesterol or other abnormalities, if you feel tired or sluggish, or if you know /why/ your weight has gone up (i.e. more junk food/drinking) then you could probably healthily lose weight, provided you have proper support.

&#x200B;

Also, do you like sports? There are so many great outdoor activities around here that it doesn't even need to feel like working out. Maybe start by joining a hiking group or a rec soccer team and see what works. Getting your body moving a little will be terrific for your health.

&#x200B;

Anyway that was longer than I expected. In short:  talk to a nutritionist. Talk to a doctor. Get blood work and a metabolic rate test done. 1500 is OK for some people but for the vast majority - especially active young men, which I think you are? - it's way too low. You'll just be shooting yourself in the foot because your metabolism will slow down OR you'll set up a restrict/binge cycle...or both.

&#x200B;

Oh, and if you /must/ use BMI, try to get your body composition done as well. This probably isn't your case but lots of very muscular people are considered "obese" or "overweight" because muscle weighs more than fat.




Frozen peas, frozen broccoli, frozen soybeans. Microwave. Greek yogurt and peanut butter. 

I’ve lost 40 pounds since this time last year, more or less that way.




You've already gotten good advice but here's stuff I found effective when I wanted to limit calorie intake freshman year (I should have been eating more lol but that's irrelevant):

Appel:

* grilled chicken and turkey patty (basically always have one of these available)
* fruit (appel has a wider, more reliable selection of fruit compared to other dining halls)
* boiled eggs at salad bar

RPCC:

* black bean burger
* stuff a ton of veggies+some sauce between two slices of bread: \~200-250 calories for what feels like an entire sandwich

Okenshields:

* certain soups

All dining halls:

* salad bars




Carb-free is going to make you feel like ass all day every day. Just eat nutrient dense foods. Get your carbs from fruit instead of trash.




Eating A healthy amount (much more than 1500 calories) but working out and doing plenty of cardio is a much better way to lose weight. Not eating much leads to A lot of mental and emotional health issues along with endocrinologic problems




Salads salads salads salads!!!




There are always healthy meat options like grilled chicken and turkey patties in the dining halls, and build-your-own omlets in the mornings. The salad stations are pretty good (I like to add some fruit on top), and you have a filling, yummy meal!




I’m surprised no one has mentioned this yet. But if you are a freshman it is totally possible to easily lose weight just because of the amount of WALKING you will do! North campus is technically up a hill so I suggest walk EVERYWHERE and DONT take the bus! But of course you can also limit your caloric intake. I would suggest eating your heavy carbs early in the day (rice, pasta, bread) at like breakfast, lunch. And then for dinner stick to protein + veggie or protein + salad. Also all dining halls have a GREAT selection of fruit infused water so I drank water all the time and was satisfied. Good Luck! :)




Maybe I'm insane but isn't 1500 calories really little and not healthy?  I'm no dietitian and I definitely don't want to get in the way of your fitness goals, but shouldn't you maybe go a bit more gradually? But again, I have no idea what I'm talking about.




Kale




Meal prep during the weekend if you can. Throwing a chicken with some sugar free marinade in the oven for 30 mins will result in meat for the entire week. Eat lots of veggies and get your carbs from non-dense sources such as blueberries, strawberries, watermelon etc. Frozen fruits and veggies are cheap and healthy. To track your calories I would weigh everything with a food scale. 

Also, I’m not a doctor but losing too much weight too fast is not healthy or sustainable because you will lose a lot of muscle mass in the process and the changes you make to your diet should be ones you can keep living with from now on for the rest of your life. It took you several years to get to where you are - don’t expect to revert that in a matter of weeks.




[Greenstar](https://greenstar.coop/collegetown/)! Not only the groceries, but the hot bar and premade options for lunch are delicious, and pretty darn healthy.




try to avoid the ice cream...aka butter




Eat some ass




FA:

- INFO 1200
- INFO 1300
- FWS
- MATH 1110

SP:

- CS 1110
- FWS
- ILRST 2100 (big mistake if you actually want to learn stat)
- PLPPM 2015 (don’t think this is available anymore)

This was close to the “recommended” schedule they had on the CALS group page.




This is sort of contingent on whether you're in CALS or CAS (assuming not engineering) and wasn't my schedule personally but I'd recommend 

FWS 
CS1110
INFO 2040

Then for the last class I'd recommend a language if you're in arts. If CALS then probably INFO2450 or a stats class like BTRY3080 or AEM 2100 

FWS 
INFO1200
MATH 1106 (it's easier than 1110)

Then for the last class I'd recommend continuing your language if you're in arts. Here you can also choose to take something like CS2110 if that interests you (not required for InfoSci) or perhaps another course from a different major to see if that might interest you or just a random CALS distribution requirement. 

The reason I don't recommend INFO1300 is because of how much busy work it is, it really drains a lot of time and will prevent you from getting a good night's sleep due to the projects/how early the class is (9am).  Info2950 is also mostly sophomores and juniors and requires stats so probably not a good fit freshman year either. 

Also, by taking 1110 first semester you get to take it with Walker White and can take more technical classes in the future if you decide to go that route (like CS2110 among others).




Beebe lake over on North campus is a nice trail. It's definitely less than 4 miles though 🙃




Check Ithacatrails.org. 

I’m bad at describing things—but I used to do a 6 mile loop from central down tower road, on Judd Falls , connect onto the old railroad (called the East Ithaca recreation way or something), over to game farm road and back along 366 or cut through the arboretum and Forest home.




There’s a shortcut to get up to the Botanic gardens if you run east along Campus Road and then continue along Triticum Drive (basically go straight once the road ends). Run along the dirt road and then run along the left side of the water tower to get into the botanic gardens (you’ll see the path). 

Once there, you can easily run a loop. If you just stay on the road and do a loop, it’s around 4 miles if you start from Teagle. 

You can also get onto trails by taking a right on the road once you get past the water tower then continuing on the road until it goes downhill. About 2/3 of the way down, there’s a rail you can hop over onto a trail—take a right and then take the first left down the hill to do a quick loop where you’ll cross the road then come out into forest home drive. You can also take a bridge that leads to monkey run. 

You can run back down Forest Home drive—go across both one-way bridges to access Beebee lake. I like to run through Beebee lake, down to the suspension bridge, then back up through campus to do a 5-5.5 mile loop on this route. 

The neighborhoods to the north are another good way to run. Between the one way bridges is a trail that takes you up to Warren Road. Warren doesn’t have any sidewalks until you’re north of Hanshaw, but I haven’t felt unsafe running through there. You can follow Warren up and find a way to the ornithology lab (Google Maps will help!). 

You can also have a more protected route running up Pleasant grove which is accessible via campus. I like to run up pleasant grove then make a left on Hanshaw which eventually turns back into Cayuga Heights. Good for a bit more elevation change while mostly having shade (unless it’s late afternoon, then the first 1.5 miles is in the sun). 

You’ll find most of the best running to be north of campus if you want to use campus as a base. Consider running down the hill around Ithaca High School, run down along Stewart Park, the waterfront trail, and back through the city and back up the hill for some distance as well as some hill work. (Not the best way to run a workout with a hill to finish, but you can switch it up somehow—a 10 miler would out that in the middle of your run).




Monkey Run/Cayuga Trails.




I used to do loops on or near the track field. If you start outside the track field you can run all the way down east campus then loop around. Then go as far down as you want and loop around.

I think in total the mileage I did was 1.3 miles per loop.




Get the running app strava and explore the segments. find people who have ran around cornell and you can just copy their routes. Thats what I did when I was there for a semester!  


Get ready for some quad workouts though!




Campus, through Cayuga Hts, over to the Lab of Ornithology, looping in the woods there, and back is near 9 miles I want to say. Another great option is to run through the Forest Home neighborhood from central or north (super peaceful and beautiful houses), then continue on to Forest Home drive right next to Fall Creek. Run on it until you see a little suspension bridge on your left, and cross it. Take an immediate right, then your next left. This will climb and put you into a pasture with some horse fields. Take a left down the main road going through the area, and follow it out to the golf center. At this point North campus will be straight ahead, just go through the gate across the road. See this link for a map: [https://onthegomap.com/?m=r&u=mi&w%5B%5D=Routes+may+not+be+suitable+for+walking.&c%5B%5D=Route+data+%C2%A92019+On+The+Go+Map%2C+OpenStreetMap+Contributors&d=8984&f=e3853b5e43&n=1&dm=1&context=share&r2=omYZ8dlwoE6O280I0a12o22w2068e50O0U0q22g22u62g5060K0M0Y60k4080o50\_11u30s31i30O0m20a40W70s10k20y20q33c60KE1g13u1Jk5\~3IDODQHW1Fi1DW13o1FM1e2Da15w5Z1y3LY2Dw1B4A6M8i11y12G2E6M48Os14A6C8Y10618Z1g2JW1NUp4c5BK9CBGz2Y30G6s31M3MLo1DW1DSBM5APk1FE8Am2g3W6W8Mc1W1o2\_1Y6Oe3Ei26u20e1T\_71Q8\_1c1e6Eo1Gg1q4iAq1w3AQ7685o1Y1e1Py2t2W1\_1CO9s1y1c5s2w3SEUCw1a1Qe1u3s2\_16i3q3k2s94q3LAd3m1l1e27k3Nk10i36o2b1y1YGl6s2X1Bt80J01NpE9pA0v28n1It1GX14f11l1Af1e1r3g1d3k1r2OFMB6n25h15Z17F7BX5p4z5h5Z1l1FPDb1l1v49Z25\~3d1xV3v31Hp5b1b3Ln39B03X73j67Z1395463FPTr3B8d18d17X1NTb1BV7V9t23x2Bx13L7T1324C9k1VF5P997X1Fh2N770N2b26l1Kh24T0T1L9LHPBFEX2BZ14BX1F8Rb1H\~2l12P0N3L033R4d29D57TX15053d1X1h1X19DBD15D6X1\~1b1z3Nh27T1d1074R234b14N0DN3l19J3D38FB3LBf3x305170JBJ5J5D19DDFl1X1NH5d197BZ1Hj10d14d1r1PF3x1r3f2\~3z2n1j1p10N2t12177V](https://onthegomap.com/?m=r&u=mi&w%5B%5D=Routes+may+not+be+suitable+for+walking.&c%5B%5D=Route+data+%C2%A92019+On+The+Go+Map%2C+OpenStreetMap+Contributors&d=8984&f=e3853b5e43&n=1&dm=1&context=share&r2=omYZ8dlwoE6O280I0a12o22w2068e50O0U0q22g22u62g5060K0M0Y60k4080o50_11u30s31i30O0m20a40W70s10k20y20q33c60KE1g13u1Jk5~3IDODQHW1Fi1DW13o1FM1e2Da15w5Z1y3LY2Dw1B4A6M8i11y12G2E6M48Os14A6C8Y10618Z1g2JW1NUp4c5BK9CBGz2Y30G6s31M3MLo1DW1DSBM5APk1FE8Am2g3W6W8Mc1W1o2_1Y6Oe3Ei26u20e1T_71Q8_1c1e6Eo1Gg1q4iAq1w3AQ7685o1Y1e1Py2t2W1_1CO9s1y1c5s2w3SEUCw1a1Qe1u3s2_16i3q3k2s94q3LAd3m1l1e27k3Nk10i36o2b1y1YGl6s2X1Bt80J01NpE9pA0v28n1It1GX14f11l1Af1e1r3g1d3k1r2OFMB6n25h15Z17F7BX5p4z5h5Z1l1FPDb1l1v49Z25~3d1xV3v31Hp5b1b3Ln39B03X73j67Z1395463FPTr3B8d18d17X1NTb1BV7V9t23x2Bx13L7T1324C9k1VF5P997X1Fh2N770N2b26l1Kh24T0T1L9LHPBFEX2BZ14BX1F8Rb1H~2l12P0N3L033R4d29D57TX15053d1X1h1X19DBD15D6X1~1b1z3Nh27T1d1074R234b14N0DN3l19J3D38FB3LBf3x305170JBJ5J5D19DDFl1X1NH5d197BZ1Hj10d14d1r1PF3x1r3f2~3z2n1j1p10N2t12177V)

&#x200B;

Another favorite of mine is to take Campus road until the footpath on the right at Judd Falls road. Get on it, and cross the intersection to get on the Rec Way. Follow this until you hit Game Farm road. Take a right, then your next left. Follow this road all the way to Turkey Hill and turn left onto it. Take this up the hill to Stevenson, take a left, then loop left back onto Game Farm and go back the way you came for about a 9 mile loop from Ho Plaza. This can easily be extended in multiple ways to make it a 13-18 mile run if you are into that.

 https://onthegomap.com/?m=r&u=mi&w%5B%5D=Routes+may+not+be+suitable+for+walking.&c%5B%5D=Route+data+%C2%A92019+On+The+Go+Map%2C+OpenStreetMap+Contributors&d=14907&f=e3853b5e43&n=1&dm=1&context=share&r2=WYYZ8plwoE801O1\_30o30y20w22g16u34W38aB0u11s60m10A0\_10I4wB0q20M0u10y25m11e16Y1Sm58UCa16O4i20Q1a1Bc3Rm65s12Q0e1T230b2AZ1CPKD6x2A535D0F2DMP4719BP9TDX1T4J1T6D8BCDCX1SX1S\~1a1n2c2j1m17CVg1Z1m1Vw1TW2x1q4Ru1X1k1LKh1Uj1UPr29Z31d18\~18VMt1o6tC60q5g1\_1Ca223IFs19U7UNw2v2yBb1aD06RyDH\_S0W63kc10kDD0f24P2R2fFKjFQnGKH018Fs2X1a6Jq3z3oOPw4Tg5\~1yB5a1v1gBFi3b1a7b1W95i30a36i92c28mD5W31O0840YANoz1z3k13a7Du6Dc119p6HjAJh9h2ZPX2\~I3r11\~16Z2Y1fAAX3c3ZX10D4Vf24Z12h4Ah7Et420t20rA4ji1IzSSxDc1fDw2xBOv28T238PGr14HZ21z1Bp5f150n6uCLu17W17W22e1Aa3Qs2k1Ti1TMJY1j1St1y1p4U\~1W1v1a1l1W1f18Bk1l1o2b2W2Z1Y1Rm1d1CBE7U5K2U3AS46AUCQ2A38LQ1E0G6E64y29E5QJa1Bg29U10d11P6r1Sl6Cb32Z10P3h25NBZ17THt3Fv22d16l10x20t10L0p23vB0H0z1090l12r60t17ZB3\~25t31f10v20x20n32b3




I might be interested! Getting studio time will be the hard part though




literally just started taking yoga classes regularly and would be super interested in this




I'm interested!! :)




I’m interested!! :)




I’m interested!




I'm interested!




I am interested too!




I’m down for smash and like tennis but have no clue how to play




I’m down for tennis




If you're gonna be staying at Risley, we have smash tournaments and other fun events planned throughout this summer!




Enrollment periods are by class with older students granted higher priority so they can meet major and graduation requirements. Within your own class it comes down to how early you log on and how gracious the student center gods are feeling to whether you get kicked off the site or not




I think you're getting confused because pre-enroll for incoming freshmen is 8 days long, while everyone else gets 3 days. All incoming freshmen have the same enrollment dates though.




IIRC, the "3-day enrollment appointment within the 8 day pre-enrollment period" only applies to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Incoming freshmen all have the same enrollment period in July.




Okay, but tuition is like $45,000 and assuming people take 20 credits on average (which is a really liberal estimate) that's $2250 per credit. Now THAT'S even more ridiculous to me.




Public school is for poors.




Fuck Cornell summer sessions




If I were you I would definitely try and take either BIOG 1440 or BIOAP 1100 because their comparative physiology approach would give an intro to the sort of things you would actually learn in vet school.




Technically, yes, 1610 will count towards the 8 credits of intro bio at Cornell. HOWEVER, you’d find that most Med schools and vet schools would prefer cell bio and physiology and therefore, most premeds and prevets would take 1350 and 1440. 

I’m not sure about prevet Advisors, maybe try reaching out to the bio department.




I think that’s a perfectly fine number of credits for your first semester. One thing I noticed at Cornell vs. my undergrad school was that students tended to really load up on credit hours and then it would turn into a competition about who could complain the most about their life and be the most miserable and sleep-deprived... A lot of that is because everyone is very driven and they want to learn as much as possible and take advantage of their time at Cornell. But I did feel that it created a trap for some students who would overdo it because they felt embarrassed if they had a number of hours that was amongst the lower end of what others would talk about. There is a reason that so many students have mental heath issues. College is an adjustment, being surrounded by such high-achieving peers is an adjustment, and you need to do what’s right for you. It sounds like you have a good plan to give yourself an adjustment period, and when you see how it goes, you can plan following semesters accordingly.




I was one of those people who took more credits first sem then I probably should've. I would highly recommend doing a schedule you feel comfortable with. Maybe aim for one challenging class and pad the rest out with stuff you think you can handle. Like others have said I would recommend an intro aem class just to see if you like it.




You're absolutely fine taking this schedule. Even if you weren't using this semester as a \*transition\* semester, that'd be enough credits/classes. 

&#x200B;

You're heading to college. Ease your way into the academic scrum. Meet new people, make new friends, and get used to Cornell's academic rigor in a chill way. 17 credits would not be the way to go, chief.




dw! lmao i started with 18 freshman year and ended up at 14 after dropping classes i just wasn’t interested in, and so did a lot of freshmen i knew. you can try adding something else you’re interested & seeing if it works out, but honestly 14 credits is normal for freshman. iirc you need an average of 14-15 each semester to be on track to graduate




Please don't compare your schedule to others, it's a good way to screw with your groove, if you know what I'm saying. For first semester it's a pretty darn fine schedule. All you should concern yourself with is managing what you put on your plate, and making sure over all semesters you've got left that you take enough credits to get the degree you want. That's all there is to it really. Also take other stuff that peaks your interest when you have the chance. Just don't stress it, it would be far worse to take too many credits and have a bad first semester.




Doc I started at community college and then took 12 credits my first semester because I was convinced I’d still flunk out. There are times to stick your toes in and there are times where you have to dive in. The water is hot around here, take your time.




You really shouldn't have more than 15 your first semester - the transition to college from HS will smack you in the face, and it takes time to get used to even with a lighter schedule. People who go for more their freshman year are almost definitely going to need to drop something, so what you have is perfect. You'll build up to being able to take 20+ credits as the semesters go on




How does all that only add up to 14? Most likely this is too easy for you but taking it easy is not a bad thing




I’m also prefrosh, where do I go to start choosing courses?




One thing that I haven't seen said in the replies yet is that credits are not always an accurate descriptor of how much work a class will really be. Different people find different subjects easier. First semester I took 14 credits and found it to be really straining. Second semester I signed up for 24, and due to me being more interested in the classes as well as them being in subjects I was more comfortable in, I found it to be easier. As long as you are making sure you are keeping enough credits to achieve whatever goals you have set for yourself, you should be fine. The worst thing you can do is sign up for too much because you see other people doing the same, and then wind up hating your experience.




Most aem intro classes aren’t too much work so if you find one you’re interested in, try adding it. Or you can take one of the required life sciences courses.




I would say that it's perfectly fine to take 13 or 14 credits as a freshman but since you're doing double major I suggest adding a 3 credit proper AEM course.




Personally as an engineering student, I regretted going too easy my first year because I had too many classes to take later on.... I don't know much about your majors though. :P I also like to sign up for many classes first and then drop the ones I end up not liking.. I often had at least one class I wanted to drop, so just making sure you don't become a part time student after dropping one class was nice.. but this is personal preference. My boyfriend liked to sign up for just what he was gonna take and stick with it for the whole semester. These are just a few things to consider, and just do whatever you want.




I’d probably pre-enroll in one more class so you have the option to drop something if a prelim goes badly so you can still be above the credit minimum - you can always drop it




youre fine. Ease into cornell, it is not easy. Get your pre-recs out of the way as quickly as possible. Nobody cares about how hard your schedule is after college if you have a degree and have your desired in-major classes.

&#x200B;

Source: Double major in math/physics with honors courses who regrets taking as many classes as I did




I took 18 my first semester thinking I could handle it. I ended up okay, but looking back, it would have been much better on my sanity had I taken a class or two less. Three classes, an FWS, and a PE class are optimal for first semester imo




ace hair salon is probably your best bet.  I go there for haircuts(also asian) its p much the only choice in town and the guy who works there is p chill.  some people i know  got their hair dyed there.  they give a discount for cash




Unfortunately night labs are a necessity sometimes! I had the night lab and it was fine you get used to it




I had that same exact lab and I loved it; the people were chill and I had a good period of time after my last afternoon class and 7:30 to quickly finish any assignments or do last-minute studying for the lab. I met some really good friends in that lab class (something about the getting home at 10:30 part really binds people together).

I'm a night owl though so take this with a grain of salt.




I took a night class one time and it was only from 7:30 to 8:30 on Monday nights for the first seven weeks of the semester. By the end of the semester, although I genuinely enjoyed the content of the class, I hated going to it because I just wanted to stay on north campus and finish my assignments or hang out with my suitemates. I usually eat dinner pretty late so that was a bit inconvenient as well.

&#x200B;

I took BioG1500 last semester. I learned a decent amount and made some good friends in my lab but that class is tedious and slightly annoying. While 1500 is the ***easiest*** lab class you will ever take in your life and while the 1500 TAs are generally relaxed, I have heard other people who take the night lab say that it was especially chill, so that might be something to consider.

&#x200B;

I think it comes down to whether or not you see yourself being happy with taking the night lab. If you really think you'll be upset having to go back out to central campus on Wednesday nights, then its probably a good idea to try to switch lab sections. Whatever you do, set yourself up to succeed! Hope that helped :)




BIOG 1500 is light so you'll be ok




Bio 1500 isn't really a class, so you'll be able to use the lab time to do homework. I wouldn't worry about it.




hi! I was trained with the Cornell sun but never ended up going through with it because I needed to invest in a sports lens in order to photograph the games (70-200mm). Go to the recruitment meeting at the beginning of the year but email the photo editor beforehand so they know you're interested. You go to three training sessions with someone, I went to two student assembly meetings and a women's lacrosse game and you photograph the sessions with whoever is training you. You then upload and fast edit and choose a couple of the best images and send to whoever is writing the article about the event you attended. After training, you can usually start as a staff photographer and will go out 2 times during the school week and once on the weekend :)




Of all the things I thought I could see on this subreddit this might be at the very bottom of the list




This cant be real




Ithaca Coffee Company in the Triphammer mall carries a variety of international candies and such.

Personally, I have a horrible memory of the first time I had Swedish salt licorice.  I was offered “licorice” and expected sweet. Quite a shock....




Salmiakki disgusts me




https://www.visitithaca.com/pride-month-ithaca :)




Smh now I gotta transfer to a different college




That's so cute. I wish I was there to hangout with you. Miss those gorges!




Afaik there's a summer groupme chat




I’ll chill with u bro, if u wanna smoke up or get drinks or smth hit my dms 🤗




I'm around and I'm down, hmu.




What’s your major?  I think if you’re in Engineering you’ll have a better chance than most. However I took the class last year and the waitlist never fully cleared out and the professor said that enrollment was prioritized for grads and CIS majors, and if I recall correctly, some students simply had to drop off the waitlist. Sorry to be a bummer.




You can try taking engri 1210(?) The one for ece majors in the spring. It is also common for folks in CS to get an ECE minor fairly easily. Don't worry about transferring just yet.

Also afaik you don't have to take chem 2090 to get the chem credit. As a transfer, if you do, i believe you can transfer the credit from A&S and petition to count Chem 2070. Or you can wait and take chem in the spring. But there is a way.

You could also take an extra liberal studies course as you wait for prereqs, to get ahead on the engineering liberal studies or the general breadth thing in A&S.




2510 is hell




Ganem is fine, but strongly recommend you take 2510 with 3580, rather than with 3570.




dont take lab w/ 3570, take it with 3580 or after it and save yourself a lot of extraneous learning




I don’t have the syllabus, but for the 2510 thing, I think it’s doable, but if you take 3580 and 2510 at the same time, there’s some overlap. So essentially studying for one will be like studying for both for some experiments.




Hi! Could I also get a copy of the CHEM 3570 syllabus? I’m most likely going to take it with Ganem and I want to know what textbook is used for the class so I can get a little ahead. Much appreciated!!




Ganem was a great professor! He taught the material well and generally seemed to really enjoy engaging with students as much as possible! He does assign homework in the form of Sapling which I wasn’t the biggest fan of, but his exams were extremely manageable, though the averages were decently high (80’s for the first two, 60-70 for the third). I enjoyed the content of 3580 more, but to really succeed in that class, you need a solid foundation from 3570. Good luck!




All the requirements are online. Just go on the CALS website and find your major and then go to the curriculum.




Sounds like a good time to schedule an appointment with an academic advisor. They can help you to put a plan together and are an invaluable resource to navigating the university.  They can also do phone appointments if you’re not in the immediate area. 

https://cals.cornell.edu/academics/advising/academic/




Current CALS sophomore here, I was in your shoes not too long ago. Please PM me if you need advice, I’d be happy to walk you through the process or put you in touch with someone who can answer your questions.




Use DUST:  [https://dust.cals.cornell.edu/](https://dust.cals.cornell.edu/) 

\- Log-in

\- Click "My degree progress"

This will bring up all the requirements you have completed and all the stuff that you need to do.




Everything is online.




Pray to the lord and savior, the Green-Shirted one, the S A A A N O




I’m sure target or Walmart would have green shirts, or old navy in the mall. Could also try Kohl’s, really whoever sells clothes could hook you up




I see a lot of people wearing tye dye in Ithaca. If I were you, I'd buy a kit from them and take it home. Then, when nobody's looking, get rid of all the other colors and only use green dye! If you do it right, nobody should notice and you'll have yourself a green shirt.




https://www.teepublic.com/t-shirt/1891




I did PSP! I was a food science major (in CALS) so I took chemistry & an FWS. 

The high school I came from didn’t have any honors, AP, or IB classes so I really needed PSP to help me adjust to the academic rigors of Cornell. That said, because of the adjustment & because chemistry was so tough, PSP was the most difficult time I had at Cornell (at least academically). I was very grateful to have gone, though, because you really do get a bit of a head start (with academics, I got one FWS credit out of the way obviously; with making friends; with learning the campus and Ithaca). It was totally worth the struggle in my opinion. 

Feel free to DM me if you want any more help or info!




It was fun and also a lot of work going from HS to college setting. Overall great experience, made friends there and no regrets really, if you got any specific question then reply or pm.




Didn't do PSP but a lot of my friends did! If you are taking chemistry in PSP (which most students end up getting placed in), you are in luck lol. The professor who teaches PSP Chem is actually teaching General Chemistry this fall, so it will be a HUGE advantage! He'll make you struggle but it will definitely pay off when the fall comes around.




I know a lot of people who did PSP and loved it! It definitely helps get you accustomed academically, but just as importantly it helps with you socially. Especially if you’re a student of color and/or you are low-income or first generation, my friends who did PSP got a lot of help acclimating to Cornell and were able to find people who related to them on a socioeconomic and ethnic level. Always regretted not doing PSP precisely for this reason - it’s tough the first (or more) years if you don’t feel like you belong. Do PSP if you have the chance! I didn’t do it because I thought I would miss home, but you’ll have upcoming winter/summer breaks to make up for it!




1 bathroom per suite (7 people). Each has one shower and one toilet




It’s not that bad. As long as u don’t have inconsiderate suite mates u won’t have any problems




It’s 100% fine, was there last year




My suite's hr5 bathroom situation was shit lol. 7 people per bathroom. That is, 7 people to 1 shower, and 7 people to 1 toilet. 

I recommend trying to make a showering schedule with your suite




Make friends with people in neighboring suites so it's not weird if you have to go use their bathroom




I was in Jameson (p much the same as HR5) and like people said it's one bathroom for a suite of 1 triple, 1 double, and 2 singles (7 ppl). There are two sinks, a stall with a toilet, and a shower with a little curtained changing area in front of the shower. It wasn't bad at all. Only one person could use the toilet at a time, but that was only an issue for me a few times throughout the whole year. Luckily my suitemates and I all showered at different times and had pretty different schedules so there was no rushing or fighting over showering in the morning to try to get to class on time.




It's not too bad as long as the people you're sharing it with don't suck too much. If it's occupied and you get real desperate, you can try another suite or a different floor, since they all have the same layout.




i have lived, loved, and thrown up in those bathrooms. i am ready for this question. 

tbh they really aren't that bad. the thing is that it's not like living with six siblings in HS or whatever bc you're not all going the same places at the same time. some of you will have class at 8,9,10,11 in the morning, etc. and there's mirrors in the rooms so you only need to be in there for toilet/shower/sink (2 of them) needs. like you'll run into each other sometimes but it's a better situation by far then like a dorm shower, lots of privacy and you don't have to shit next to anyone else.




Considering $ààno Müremmbya lived in HR5, pretty bad




If you use the messaging system they get an email to their net id




Lucky...




No, shared bathroom means common bathroom for the floor from my understanding. There are no coed and be prepared to get a workout in mcfaddin no elevator and those flights are ...uh... you'll find out. Welcome!




I stayed in McFaddin last year. Shared just means it's in the hall. The floors alternate between guys and girls so the bathrooms aren't co-ed. My floor had two bathrooms which was nice. The third floor bathroom leaks during storms but I think they are fixing that over the summer.




If you go looking online you can actually find an old version of mcfaddins floorplans - I doubt they have changed much, and they show how the bathrooms are setup.




Thanks a lot for all the clarification




I’m living in McFaddin next year so I snuck inside to see what it’s like. Shared bathroom means there’s a bathroom on the floor with around three stalls and two showers, depending on the floor, and the bathroom is usually male or female only. (my floor has no bathrooms, yikes)




Note for other houses on west— some shared bathrooms may be coed but it depends on the house sounds like McFaddin is separated by floor so no coed bathrooms




[deleted]




The only situations I have personally seen where room change requests got approved were when
1:  The person had someone else willing to switch with them.
or 2:  The person was given a single when they did not request one, and they wanted to change to a double or triple for financial reasons.

I’m sure other scenarios have also worked, but I know for a fact these two do.




Dont know what vehicle you have but a pair of pads go for $40 to $90.   Each rotor lowest price is $40.   Say parts cost $150.  So $300 total is fair




In two years in grad school in Ithaca, trombley was nothing but fair to me. Go get a quote from another place if you’d like a second opinion.




Rotors? Yes that’s fair. I had a Volvo that was easily $500/pair just for the rotors. Used to be $700 every time it went into the shop.

Go to Diane’s on State st. If u want a second. I find them to be fair and honest.




Speaking as a Rho Gamma (sorority recruitment counselor), going through recruitment is totally normal as a sophomore! It’s true that more freshmen go through recruitment than sophomores, but everyone is on an even playing field and if anyone holds it against you or judges you for it, that’s NOT okay. You don’t need a “good reason” or an excuse for going through recruitment as a sophomore, and while yes you might get asked why, it really should have absolutely no bearings on anything related to your recruitment process. Some people do it as a sophomore because they transferred, some people tried freshman year, withdrew, and are trying again, and some people just needed the extra time to decide whether they wanted to join a sorority.

PM me if you want more information about the sorority recruitment process!




Yes you can, but you have to have a good reason why you’re rushing as a sophomore. Most houses will definitely ask




You just scoop the fresh snow from your window sill...




I used a Brita pitcher and filled it up in my dorm kitchen.




Usually we expect first years to engage in ritual meditation and severe penance and fasting in order to decrease your water needs to below 1 cup a day. If after one semester your body cannot survive on this amount daily, Cornell may not be the right place for you.




ummm I never had a problem of not having enough water. I usually just fill up my water bottle and that’s enough for me. Also, you’re probably not going to be stuck in your room all day and they’re fountains in pretty much every single building on campus




the kitchen?




I drank tap water, filled bottles up in the kitchen, at the dining hall, etc. My roommate used a Brita filter pitcher and filled it in the kitchen.




I use a Britta pitcher because I hate the tap water in Ithaca. There was a kitchen on my floor with a sink and a refrigerator that I used.




have more than one bottle and fill them up in the kitchen




Some dissolved carbonates won’t hurt you




I bought gallon jugs. Maybe it was because I lived in one of the older dorms, but I just couldn't stomach the smell and taste of the water that came from the kitchen sink.




I was always afraid of wasting time for studying so I would just scoop water out of the communal toilet rather than traveling to the kitchen.




In my experience the water tastes a lot more chlorinated in the summer.  In the winter it tastes like standard drinkable tap water.  Water fountain water and bottle filler water tastes good, sink water may have the chlorine flavor.  I just got a brita pitcher and filled it from the kitchen sink and used the water fountain if one was nearby.




Some people buy packs of bottled water, or fill up several water bottles at the water fountain.




I buy cases of water bottle and drink whenever I need to in my room, of course when I lived on campus I'd drink during meals at the dining halls and off campus I kept a water bottle on me so I can refill at those filtered fountains.




I pretty much only drank water in dining halls, even though I had a sink in my room. You don’t really need all that much water. If you’re really bothered by it, you can just buy some water bottles to have lying around




English?




Probably Python




Why don’t you try to enjoy the language requirement and choose a language that you like. There are like 52 languages offered at Cornell. People should be ashamed of only being able to speak one language.




German is probably the easiest out of the “mainstream” languages.




Yeah if you take English as a Second Language but are a native speaker it should be pretty easy.




Had her for regular Ethics and she was good. Ethics in general is really fuckin boring though




I haven't taken this class but have taken her normal ethics class and heard things about this one.  Markovits is a very good professor: clear, coherent, and makes the content relevant.  However, she's a bit disorganized and the class suffers slightly for the lack of adherence to the schedule.  I heard the bioethics class deals with a variety of biological issues, while the regular class was just an overview of the field.  Not too much work.  Essays are graded fairly (though that's a TA thing), participation is required but counts for a lot of credit, and she gave our class a super easy exam at the end.  Overall I'd recommend it based in my experience.




Unless you’re a transfer or graduate student. They can drown.




Apparently we have it because some kid drowned in like the 1900s and their parents donated a ton of money with the condition that no other Cornellian graduate without knowing how to swim.




Swarthmore also has that requirement for graduation.




Hamilton has a swim test too




Yea, that's the one bad thing about CALS where you come affiliated with your major, you'll just have to keep emailing them to either let you in the major (assuming you fulfilled what they want you to fulfill before trying to affiliate)or to let you into the courses (email the profs). It's up to the department head to accept you into the major so your old department or college can't do much except to guide you to people in the department you want to get into.




I have a polar opposite opinion of the person below, so I think it will really depend.

I personally felt the class was a binary between common sense stuff or over-analytical, made-up, definition-overload bullshit - there was no in-between. Analysis of design choices is either braindead (as in anyone could join the class at any point in the semester and figure out what it being discussed) or total overkill with definitions/vocabulary that seemingly exists just to make it seem like you're doing something even though the discussion/topic at hand is not complex at all. 

Overall I got basically nothing out of the class. The work was okay and not too tedious - definitely not a class you need to worry about. The professor (Drew Margolin) is pretty entertaining and funny. I have a feeling there are better taught/organized design classes, although I am not into that so I would not really know.

I feel if you like looking at tech from a like... humanities/psych/comm/design/<something> perspective then you may enjoy it, but otherwise it will feel pretty bullshit as it did for me.




[deleted]




This was one of the easiest classes I took during my entire four years. The lectures are entertaining and can be mildly interesting, but the content feels hilariously simple. I stopped doing any of the weekly readings after a week and managed an A—the tests were mostly simple multiple choice, and as long as you vaguely keep up with the content, you can breeze by. The workload is minimal—maybe at most a page of writing a week, iirc? I’d definitely recommend it as an easy A with a fun lecture, but I don’t think the content is particularly challenging or groundbreaking, if that’s what you’re looking for.




Is that networks? My information may be out of date, but when I took the class  8 or 9 years ago it was super easy. Just either going to to the class, or not going but reading the lectures sliders later or the textbook, and doing all the homework was enough to prepare me well for the exams. I got an A with minimal effort. The class was pretty interesting too, which was nice.

Also for reference, another time I took a different class because a friend had told me it was easy, but I forgot to account that he was much smarter than me, and it was hard as fuck. So I wasn't someone who just found difficult classes easy, networks was legitimately easy, though the material also played well to my strengths (math based, but fairly simple and mostly just logic, no complex calculus or really any major calculions).

Edit: looked it up and I was thinking of INFO 2040




You're in a suite.




Welcome to Cornell! I've lived in Cook for two years and am coming back again for senior year. If you have any questions or would just like to make a friend, feel free to DM me!




You will not be able to. Ethernet connections need registered Mac addresses and the whole campus is on wireless with wireless visitor access. You need a wireless adaptor




* Its spelt internet FTFY




I mean I’ve had a good time, at co-op parties and from Grindr hookups. Cornell is very inclusive. I’ve worn nail-polish and makeup and no one called me a fag! My fuckboy roommates even got used to me. Just remember to get tested regularly. I’ve had a problem with a few crazy incels but that’s about it. Also don’t listen to these straight squares. Haven is not going to hook you up with parties, it’s going to hook you up with game nights. There is no secret gay party scene at the moment, that ended because the people who did it were tired. (There is no TRR atm) Frats are generally tolerant, but they can be very homophobic, don’t doubt that for a second. Don’t worry about parties right now, they will find you, and if they don’t you can message me and I’ll keep you in the loop.




OK I'm going to be the negative person here and not really answer your question or tell you anything you want to hear or might be useful here, but just reflect on my experience at Cornell. Gay life at Cornell can be a little sketch. I say this because I feel that a lot of the "haven gays" tend to be the most sus with their behavior and they actually pushed me away from being part of that community, also because of other hypocritical + hyper-critical things they would say and do. I think there's a division between Cornell gays that I think has especially been perpetuated by the Haven-type crowd where on one side of the spectrum you're "involved in the community" and on the other side you're against them and I think there's a lot more gays going into fraternities (which sounds insane) because there isn't really much friendship with other gays in that space unless you want to be "involved", pretend you care about/believe in things you probably don't and/or are not knowledgable about (there are some people who do care but so many are all talk) , or just want to fuck each other . I think there's really only one way of thinking that's approved and I think even as a pretty liberal guy my viewpoints definitely didn't match up. Cornell's gay life is desperate. We basically just have a handful of attractive guys that literally every guy is trying to hook up with/date and there's a lot of sexual entitlement that goes along with it (I'm not 100% sure what I mean by that but I will explain later). I know this sounds so douchey, but having been on both sides of that (not being one of the handful then being one of the handful wow that sounds awful holy fuck) it really illuminates some dark aspects of the community here that I guess I was just naive to not understand before. I guess it's the general rule for life that good looks help you make friends & get dates/hookups but I feel like it's on another level here---and I've honestly contributed to this. If you do wind up becoming one of those people prepare for a lot of really weird situations, and I guess this is because a lot of people having just came out are not very experienced with sexuality and being sexual but really let's not make excuses we're adults. When I say sexual entitlement I guess what I mean is you will be faced with constant sexual aggression whether it is touching, grabbing, generally weird conversations, getting sent weird messages----and I'm not even talking about what you'll experience at parties. I definitely won't say I've been sexually assaulted but I've just seen a lack of boundaries and people thinking that's OK. On the bright side putting a minimal amount of effort into your appearance, even just lifting weights 2x a week, will make people super horny for you (i'm only half joking). So yea it's definitely a pretty vain community that I'm ashamed has rubbed on me a shit ton. I never thought I would be putting so much effort into my appearance and hitting the gym (which I guess is honestly a good thing-wow I'm SUCH a bro), never thought I would be spending my freshman fall semester and spring break trying to get in good shape for rush (gosh I'm just so good looking, ripped, and humble) because all of the popular gays had joined fraternities. I guess what I'm trying to say is there's a lot of crazy here (me included) and if you're looking for a meaningful relationship or partner you'll probably gotta dig real deep. I've been fortunate enough to befriend some awesome guys gay &straight, and also have been in awesome relationships...so there's hope.

&#x200B;

Also I never really took the opportunity to get to know the co-op side of things and I don't really know anything about that, so that might be something worth exploring.




The first Thursday of every month is Thursgays at Silky Jones in the commons! It’s usually pretty busy with all kinds of people from the LGBTQ community. It’s also a great way to meet other people to hear about more events




I'm not personally into stuff like that but I've read that there are sexuality related clubs, from plain lgbtq to topics like s&m. I'm sure you could meet a couple people there, even anonymously, and learn more about what underground events there are.

&#x200B;

I've started to find that, in my own ventures, it's not about being cool, it's about placing yourself into the right situations where the people you're interested in are definitely going to be hanging out and soon you will just be part of the group.




if ur white ur gonna have a great time




Haven is Cornell’s LGBTQ+ student union, and there are a lot of organizations under its umbrella. I don’t know what their party scene is like, but I know they have a lot of events throughout the year that my friends who are a part of Haven really like. That might be a good starting point to connect with people and find out more about the community. Hope this helps!




Talk, be nice and discern!




a lot of my queer friends enjoy TTR parties, but I've never been




Bruh




There's no good way to know if your FWS instructor is going to be any good. I got very lucky by choosing a relatively obscure class that perfectly suited my interests, and it turned out my instructor was fantastic. I would recommend just choosing the one that seems most intriguing based on the description. That said, you should know that a lot of the ENGL FWS classes (like short stories) that are listed with like 10 different sections are going to vary the most based on the instructor, as opposed to one like mine that only had one section, so the course description very closely matched the experience. Some people have a good time in those classes, a lot of people are either indifferent or frustrated by them, from what I've heard.

Take 1110.




1110

Isn’t Short Stories an FWS? Or are you looking for another for spring semester?




Your schedule is pretty standard for pre-vet students! However, you can't take ANSC 2120 yet because you need the prerequisite of your first year of general chem before you take it. Nearly every pre-vet freshman takes BIOAP 1100 their first semester because it's a prereq for a bunch of other things and acts as a foundation for the rest of the classes.

It's not going to be necessarily easy, but this is the most manageable schedule that pre-vet students can have :3




If you got a 5 on BC and AP CS, you should be getting credit for Math 1910 and CS 1110. In that case, take Math 1920 and CS 2110 first semester.




Take all the AP credit you can, you won't regret it. Otherwise, that seems like a good schedule that won't cause too much stress for freshman year




I think you might have trouble fitting in an ECE major, a CS minor, and also electives that interest you outside CS if you take this schedule first year. Not saying it can't be done, but you might have some rough semesters. OTOH if you've taken AP CS and BC and got 5 on both exams, this schedule will probably be too easy for your first year.   
  If this is the case, I would definitely recommend placing out of 1110 and into 2110. Make sure you take 2110 as ENGRD, not CS, it DOES make a difference if you want to count 2110 as an ENGRD, which you might want to do because an ENGRD can be substituted for your ENGRI, although you might want to verify with the advising office that this is still the case. I also think there'd be no reason to retake 1910.    
I really think a first-semester schedule of 2090, 1920, 1112, FWS is not too hard and it will help you in the future. In that case I would recommend you take PHYS 2213, FWS, ENGRD 2110 and possibly an ECE course in the spring.




I'm also a freshman in COE planning on ECE and I'm trying to figure it out too. From what I heard AP CSA should prepare you well for CS 2110/2112. I also just took BC and am planning on taking 1920. I think it's also easier to drop to a lower level than move up during the add/drop period.




Move up to 1920 and grab lube for 2090.

 2090 is uninteresting, tedious, and poorly taught so prepare for some intimate time with the shitty textbook 

1920 is easy 

Idk about CS that’s your call. There’s also 2112 if you’re really confident in your cs skills




You’re going to be busy most of those days with school planned events and then making friends in the afternoons and evenings. To be honest I would not want my parents there. I love my parents but if I had to juggle them during o week as well as the stress of the school events and trying to make friends and go out I’d be so overwhelmed. O week can be very fun but it is jam packed, tiring, and low key stressful.




Honestly try to avoid having your parents come, not because they’re bad people, but honestly you need to focus on making friends and adjusting to the atmosphere etc.




i mean your parents can come whenever they want and whenever you have time for them. if you want to have them there as your classes are starting, that’s perfectly fine. also, there is a parents visitation weekend happening sometime around october where the parents do have activities planned, if they’d rather wait it out.




I'm an incoming freshman too, but I found a school-specific o-week schedule on Canvas, so maybe check there! [I also found last year's o-week schedule.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-VVEQoq1oqvbkNtelA0X1dwdkVPVUV6dFg2OFQ0SmtDVUE4/view?usp=sharing)  Hope this helps!




Nah, tell them to come during parents weekend during October, you won't have time for them during O-Week.




Aw, as Biometry and Stats major myself, whyyyyyy?
Anyway, whatever. Reasons are reasons. During pre-enroll, I guess you can just select the classes you want to take regardless of major. And then contact the necessary person for the major, ie follow the instructions on this pdf:
https://cals.cornell.edu/sites/cals.cornell.edu/files/shared/documents/academics/MajChFl%20-%20sp%202019.pdf

If you want to be safe, you can start with the stats classes (it’s only BTRY 3010), or simply take classes that satisfy CALS requirements. And then you can change things around during add/drop.




Also sad to see you switch from Biometry without giving it a chance, I wouldn't call the major too "mathy" other than the math requirements. You can't switch major on your own, you can start taking courses for your intended new major, however. Then you can meet with the department head for new major and begin the transfer process by taking the necessary courses and steps, major can only be switched by department heads who accept you.

I hope you give Biometry a chance, it's really not as mathy as one might think, especially if you choose the right electives. I never took a stats class before college either, they don't expect you to have taken a stats before.




I tried giving biometry a chance but personally found the math requirements too difficult. I chose it as a major because it was the most business-oriented major in CALS, but I really disliked it and didn't take a single math or stats class spring semester (Lol). 

I also had a pretty terrible time in 3010; the professor was extraordinarily dull and the course expected us to compute using R. R Studio isn't a computer language, but as someone with no prior coding experience I found the homework to be really difficult. The homework assignments ere basically dependent on R, while the prelims and final was mostly straight stats. I just found the class poorly managed and disorganized. However, if you are more STEM oriented, and maybe a bit more inclined to not procrastinate the homework, then follow through with it. I recall being automatically enrolled in 3010 in my student center though, so you need to take at least that first semester even if you enroll in Comm classes. 

I was speaking to a senior who was Biometrics too, and she (like myself) wasn't that strong in STEM and said she regretted not switching out while she still had a chance. If you want to do communications you should probably supplement it with a double major or minors or rigorous club activities, as this major has a reputation of being easier. I'm not disrespecting the major, as I was considering it too, but I do think future employers would like to see more than just a communications major. 

As a freshmen you have time to figure it out though. I say stick with Biometry for now, as it one of the most versatile majors with many applications.




[deleted]




Its always a party in PSB baby




You’re gonna hate this answer but every school likely parties the same amount. You have people who like to do it, and those who prefer quiet weekends. Then you have folks in universities that are near a big city like Harvard and UPenn where downtown bars and clubs might be more popular, while house parties could be bigger in Ithaca.




It’s always a party in Duffield at 2 AM during prelim szn




Compared to other Ivies, yes. Compared to UMD, hell no.










Cornell (like any other big college) is what you make it. If you want to party every day then make friends with people in greek life and enjoy.




I don't think it really matters (relative rank) because if you want to party then you can find a party almost any time of the year there, and if you're not the party type then you can totally ignore the party scene without an issue (like me).




Theres tons of sex, drugs, and parties in the right places. At some points I was going out multiple times a week (I regret that lol). Join a frat or something




I'd say less than Dartmouth and more than Columbia. Different KINDS of parties than the ones at Brown. Can't really speak to the others.




unfortunately all languages at cornell are a lot of work (not hard) just more like busy work (which when paired with hard classes can get in the way)

most people say like 2 hours every night on hw (you can usually get this down) but if you actually think about that-you’ll realize the combination of having class everyday and the homework is actually a lot

it really just depends on your schedule and how much time you dedicate to it




this is blatantly false. first of all, low rise 7 has a cool hand sign. second of all, we have a ping pong table. and lastly, could anything that happened in low rise 6 ever match the craziness of someone smashing a dump and run bin through a window and then kicking another one? i don’t think so buddy.




Both low rises are booty




dickson represent




low rise 6 is a shithole.  was there last semester lmao we had the pipes burst in the middle of the night and it was freezing out and some people had water in their rooms, then we lost energy on a separate time. at least 7 has the ping pong table(altho someone decided to break all the paddles)




This is the most misleading post I’ve ever seen 😂




Totally depends on the language. 6 credit languages like Chinese and Japanese meet daily (seven times a week in total). 4 credit languages like Indonesian or Spanish meet four times a week. Workload depends on the language, of course.




I really really recommend you start it before the end of sophomore year, if not freshmen year. Even though they’re a big workload, your courses at a sophomore and junior will get
More challenging and you’ll have other, more specialized stuff going on. It sucks when you have to do 2 hours or an hour of a language every night and not focus on cool classes in your major as much. Languages are great, but sometimes they can be a bit overkill here imo. Don’t start at 2nd semester junior year, like I did.




Where is the pool in Donlon?




theres only 2 things freshmen need to know: if you’re not in mews or ckb, your dorm is shit. if you’re in the lowrises, your dorm is ultra shit.

j make the best of your situation its not that hard




[deleted]




when do the raffle results come out anyway?




I took CS 1110 as a freshman with no experience (now have 2 CS degrees from Cornell). IMO it'd be impressive if you could pull an A in this class as many students with prior CS experience take it. This puts you at a slight disadvantage but not too bad as Cornell has a very particular way of doing things. I'ts absolutely possible to get a B, which is the median - the class is generally very reasonable. What I'd be more concerned about is actually getting into the course as the demand is so high and nearly all the slots are reserved for freshman. If you work at it by 2110 you should be able to close the gap. I got a B in 1110 in my first semester, an A- in 2110. Bear in mind that the remaining CS core, 3410, 3110, 4410, 4820 - are very difficult.

What was your major prior to switching? I ask because unless you're switching from like, chemical engineering, AEP, Physics etc (I was originally one of these), CS is probably harder than your current declared major. With that said if it's something you think you'd enjoy, I'd highly recommend it - it's much easier to work at something you enjoy regardless of how smart you are.




If you have no experience at all, and you’re gonna take it in the fall, expect it to be challenging and a lot of work. That said, I still highly encourage you take it.




It's not that hard, it's just a lot of work if you have some coding experience. but since u have none, it may be a little bit difficult. The median grade in this class tends to be a B.




Thank you for the replies. I previously was undeclared and am considering majoring in info sci with a concentration that isn't necessarily coding heavy, but I think it's required that I take CS 1110 and CS 2110. I'm very concerned because I've heard from everyone that it's pretty difficult and labor intensive. Does anyone have a suggestion of how I can better prepare myself for it over the summer?




You need to stay in good standing with engineering (don't remember the requirements any more, but your advisor can tell you) before you transfer. CAS CS majors can take either math track, so it's really your choice. Both math tracks(engineering and arts) count as Arts & Sciences credits anyways- the arts track is harder and more theoretical, engineering is more straightforward and applied. If you don't particularly care for math, the engineering courses are pretty easy compared to the arts ones. Definitely take a language course sooner, rather than later- it's pretty annoying to have conflicts with CS courses caused by language reqs.

The transfer process is straightforward and basically exactly what it says on the internal transfer webpage. Just follow the instructions. If you fulfill the GPA requirements for internal transfers it's almost certainly guaranteed. I did it around sophomore year.




It honestly depends on the head instructor/professor of that semester. If you can, take it with Marcelo Aguiar! I didn't have him personally, but most people I knew had him and said he was a wonderful professor who carefully took the time for you to learn it. I took it this past semester with him as the head instructor who writes the exams, and it was overall quite doable because most of the practice exams reflected very similar concepts on the real exams. It's not hard and as long as you put in the effort to review past exams and homework assignments, it'll be very straightforward and predictable. There is a pretty decent curve, it does depend on your cohort, but most exams were curved to a B. You get a homework assignment each week, which I say can take from 2-3 hours in one sitting, but you could honestly look up the answers on slader for most haha.

Fair warning though, as I said it depends on the head instructor, I had friends who took it fall semester and the professor (Allen Knutson) who wrote the exams was literally nuts (haha) and tested them on the strangest concepts which had nothing to do with the main objectives of the course and no one ever knew what to expect for exams, it was curved more as a result. He gave homework assignments that required extensive office hours, over 5 hours of work.




After two classes in the math department (including 1120) I feel that a lot of their instructors tend to be super-theoretical guys who get off on proofs and mathematical history. I haven't had a math instructor who didn't waste a ton of time teaching material that we didn't need to know and obfuscating the important concepts with jargon and theory. If you want to learn about mathematics for mathematics' sake, you'll love that. If not, look into the ENGRD math classes - they're better organized, have more support, and teach the material in a much more conventional way.




If you’re going to be living there, you should probably know it’s called Clara Dickson not dickenson




[https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/c10q2h/are\_the\_rumors\_about\_this\_dorm\_true/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/c10q2h/are_the_rumors_about_this_dorm_true/)




d i c k e n s o n




not bad...pretty good location as in not too far back like the townhouses and close to the 2 dining halls on north ...pretty good imo




It does well. You can sleep there and eat there and occasionally reside there as well.




I personally thought it reminded me of a grandmother's haunted mansion




Just got unlucky, it’s a lottery, they probably didn’t have enough people applying to Ujamaa. I’m also a freshman coming so I’m not sure about ur last question.




Even if you live in a program house you don’t have to interact with anyone!! Cornell tries to matriculate as many freshmen as possible so some freshman get placed in the program houses and you have no say on what dorm you get.




Your room change request will probably not go through. Plenty of freshmen get placed into the program houses/townhouses and have to stick with it. Maybe if you had some medical reason or are incapable of paying the $50 fee.

Chill out. Even if you don't click socially (which you might) I highly doubt you'll be bullied or that it'll otherwise be unlivable. Sorry about the shitty luck.




If there isn't a serious need then it's not going to change. I recommend trying to take as much as you can from living in a place that might put you out of your comfort zone. It could be a great opportunity to learn a lot.




Btw I really don’t have anything against the Ujamaa program house, it’s just I feel that someone else would enjoy living here more than me




You only had to apply to a single type of housing on the application (unlike the number of beds in a room, where you were forced to rank all four of them from best to worst).




Oof




I read on the intro page to that particular house on Cornell’s website that 50% of people living there aren’t black? That seems a bit odd to me imo but if it’s true then you probably wouldn’t feel too uncomfortable since the housing might be more mixed race than you expect




there are snipers so you might wanna watch out

/s sorry i had to

[https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/4hs01x/outdoor\_track\_hours/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/4hs01x/outdoor_track_hours/) probably whenever




the indoor track at Barton is open and usually free to use until 11 pm everday. see other comment for outdoor




Older suitemates come with a bit of a challenge but are super rewarding to live with. They’re not as active as their younger counterparts and require a lot more care and attention than a younger suitemate. Often older suitemates prefer to stay indoors, but you should still try to take them outside once in a while. You’d be amazed how an older suitemate that normally prefers to nap perks up when you say “fishbowls?”




they’re people. Make friends, ask them for advice on classes, or anything else you can think of, get their old textbooks to save money.




My roommate freshman year in my double was a junior. I was a bit nervous at first but it ended up being great! He was premed like me so he gave me a ton of advice regarding classes and extracurriculars. We didn’t become best friends or anything but that was to be expected—he had his social group all set and that really encouraged me to branch out and navigate the social scene for myself. We’d still find time to grab a meal together every once in a while though. Having a mixed group of friends in terms of age really is beneficial for navigating a big school like cornell!




Welcome to HILC! I’ve lived there since my freshman year and am a rising junior now. I’ve always considered the variety of ages a perk because you have a lot of people who’ve been there and done that to offer advice to you. You don’t get that opportunity as much in freshman-only dorms! But in all honesty, age differences shouldn’t be that much of a concern. You’ll probably adjust to it quite quickly!




fuckin’ deal with it




Older suite mates are usually pretty great! They tend to be out and about a lot more, so chances are you’ll see them less than your other suite mates. They’re also good sources of social life if you get to be friends with them; you can check out what clubs and organizations they’re part of, if they interest you. Bonus if they’re in your major or college, because they can (hopefully) answer questions about classes that are good/bad, etc.




Had this exact situation this past year. HILC is alright once you get past everyone telling you it sucks. Probably the best of the low rises, other than the fact that they’re constructed in an identical manner. Like any dorm, hang out in the lounges enough to meet people. You won’t want to feel confined to your room for lack of social comfort, so strip your shirt off and lay on the floor in the main lounge on a pile of blankets until everyone thinks you’re on some kind of list. 
Make sure your roommates will clean up after themselves. It’s not gonna be a tiny room but it won’t be massive and definitely with the wrong personalities/approaches will be too small. 
Get a box fan. The main lounge in unit 3 has AC but nowhere else. 
There will be probably be one bunk bed and one solo, usually lofted. 
Pick the lofted bed if you can get it, without another roommate in your space, or pick the bottom of the bunk bed. I’ve seen HILC triples large enough that the solo bed didn’t have to be lofted, but mine was pretty small. 
Also, hilc is pretty bizarre since there’s a large diversity of backgrounds. i never once spoke to my suitemates but I spoke to many cool upperclassmen. 

Get in good with your roommates as much as possible. They will make or break your experience. Be assertive but don’t be a dick. 

Good luck.




Bright side: they can show you the ropes if they decide to interact with you.




Wait, how did you check your suitmates? The new system has me confused and that suite sounds like mine.....




they're def more scared of u thn u r of them




The schedule is fine, pretty similar to my schedule for second semester freshman yr.

For project teams, try and talk to current members to see which ones you would be a good fit for. Keep in mind that freshmen have a weird delayed schedule for applying to teams (offset by a few weeks), so you may or may not want to count yourself as a sophomore when applying.




That’ll happen. Sorry dude, looks like you got unlucky with the housing lottery.




Same thing happened to me (we're in the international house). I think we just got unlucky




Yeah they put freshmen into any houses on north and that includes the program houses




Same thing happened to me. I was thinking at one point if I made the mistake of choosing a program house (now I know I didn’t). Out of all places, I got stuck in Ujamaa... like how? I’m not even black. I feel extremely uncomfortable about being assigned to this room because I don’t fit in and tbh $50 to talk about African culture isn’t one of my interests




It's in ctown so it's a little less convenient to go to on campus dining options.  Rooms are variable, but can be pretty good.




It's on the South edge of campus, right in Collegetown. Dining halls are a bit of a trek (as are most campus eateries) but you do have access to all the restaurants and stuff. 

Rooms I would say are pretty nice, maybe not as nice as West main houses but definitely leagues above Gothics. As long as you're not on the "first floor" (basement) I wouldn't complain. What I've noticed is that the building seems to have extremely good insulation, which is IMO one of the most important aspects of a building to live in. 

There's a public (paid) parking lot right next to it which is pretty nice for move-in.

Lounges and study spaces are abundant and really nice as well, some of them just got minor renovations.

Casc is where pretty much all the "South Campus" community events happen, too, because it's got the nicest main lounge. If you want to make friends where you live and help out with some of these events I'd recommend joining the Community Builders team - super informal but they get stuff done.




Cascadildo




Sheldon is fking amazing. It's close to campus and in collegetown and there's no slope.




i have a friend who lived in sheldon as a transfer last year and enjoyed it enough to apply to live there again this upcoming year! if you’re living in a double i would think it’s pretty safe to say that you have a roommate as cornell does not really have enough housing to leave a double half empty. i don’t know if it shows you though until after you sign the contract, so maybe take another look? sheldon’s a pretty small dorm which i imagine makes it easier to get to know the people you’re living with, which, while they might not be specifically sophomore transfers, could turn out to be pretty cool! (like myself LOL) 
regardless i wouldn’t let housing assignments bum you out too much, a lot of people make good friends in their dorms but a lot of people also don’t and find most their friends in clubs/classes/etc and don’t really even come back to their dorm unless it’s to sleep. good luck w figuring things out, but i think you’ll be fine either way!




I lived in Sheldon as a transfer this past school year. Honestly, Sheldon was pretty amazing. You have access to food in Collegetown and West, and it’s a reasonable walk to the main campus libraries. You also bypassed the torturous slope. To be frank, I did not talk to anyone in the building while I was living there. Generally, there were a lot of transfers and sophomores living in Sheldon but they all resided in different majors so there wasn’t a huge prerogative to initiate friendships. I met all of my friends through the online transfer forum thing, orientation, and via my major. I would also advise you to try and make friends with people through orientation and Greek life if that’s what you’re interested in. There’s also your roommate. Greek life at Cornell is huge and people meet a majority of their friends through it, so that’s definitely a possibility as well. If I could do it again, I would choose Sheldon. In my opinion, having visited all three South Campus dorms, I think it’s the best option.




It really depends on your program and course choices, to be honest.

I've had semesters where I could fit a language class plus a PE class comfortably, and semesters where I was in the office every weekend just to keep up.

2 years means masters program, so you'll probably be pretty busy based on conversations I've had with masters students. The best way to know is ask people in the second year of your program.




I took French in 2014-2015. I also graduated with a German Studies major.

Not sure about what level of French you are looking at. Intro level classes meet every day and there is daily albeit short assignments. I found them not terribly time consuming for someone interested in languages. As soon as you move up to intermediate level, you meet less frequently (3x a week usually), but there is a lot of selection in terms of who choose to take it - heritage speakers, people who have lived in France or taken years of French... It is much harder to keep up imo. There was one grad student in one of my German classes, too. Not sure if she was a Masters student or PhD though.

It definitely depends on how intense your program is. For masters, usually the second year is more flexible than the first. Also important to keep in mind, intro level language classes are predominantly made of freshmen and intermediate classes sophomores and juniors.




Hi,

French for grad students (which is the name of the course) is offered every spring on Monday-Wednesday-Frisay schedule. It's mostly so that we can read and translate French into english; it's not for speaking or really writing. People are usually able to translate prose in their field by the end of the semester.




You'll need to work with Student Disability Services to document your asthma, then they'll work with student housing to get you your accommodation. Sooner would be better, I'd give SDS a call Monday. Good luck!




If you notified them earlier then 100% they'd put you in the A/C buildings, now you just have to hope they have rooms left.




Maybe if you have documented proof that your asthma is triggered by heat? I know the rooms are pretty hard to switch once they're set, so good luck!!




Unfortunately, I was in a really similar situation. I had multiple calls with SDS when I was applying for housing and got documentation from my doctor that I have severe asthma triggered by environmental allergens and dust and thus need to be in an air conditioned/air filtered room. Despite this documentation, they put me in Low Rise 7, which is notoriously dusty and bad... So I called them and was like wtf, and they apologized and promised they would install an air conditioning unit in my room by the time that I move in. When I got to campus, there was no air conditioner in my room. I emailed again and they again promised that facilities would install it within the next week. It never happened and I suffered the whole time. 
Sorry, my dude. Hopefully you’ll be luckier than I was.




Great place to live a lots of normal sophomores don’t even get to live there




As a transfer, Cook is the best place you can be. Cook REALLY cares about its transfer students and provides a lot of opportunities for transfer students to get involved. They even assign SAs (RAs) to be the point of contact to all transfer students in the complex (Alice Cook House is a complex of 7 buildings as well as the name of the main (newer) building). They host transfer only meals together weekly, they have a welcome reception for transfers. You really got lucky! It is the oldest newer construction on West and was opened in 2004.  Dining is open the latest, and the staff are really great. When people say it is the furthest from central, they are literally talking 100 or so yards, literally, if you are complaining about that, then you definitely live a very privileged life. Everyone has to go up the slope no matter how far away from it you are.




Regarding the “worst house of west campus”, that might be true (I haven’t lived in any other ones), but even as the worst of west campus main houses, it’s still pretty good.

There are some complaints:

our elevator broke last September and they didn’t finish fixing it until Nov/Dec, and even now, it still shakes/makes loud noises

half of the laundry machines are always broken, but you usually don’t know which (we had a group chat to let people know which are broken at the time)

the food is alright on most days but can get old; house dinners (every weds) are usually pretty bad compared to other houses tho

some people complained about their fire alarm going off in their suite randomly

But despite this, the building is pretty new (very new compared to the rest of west) and pretty desirable, and you have a dining hall right below you, so I’d say you’re pretty lucky in any case

Edit: regarding the deleted comment asking if I have lived in a Gothic:

Yes, I lived in a Gothic my sophomore year. No one is saying that cook is the worst dorm/building on west. We're comparing main houses, which we know are better than Gothics. The Gothics are towers/halls, not main houses.

Also, in the Gothic building I lived in, and my freshman dorm, when laundry machines went out of order (which wasn't ALL the time), it would be marked as such. I understand these complaints might be minor, but those are what could make them worse than other main houses.




Damn also a transfer and also got put into Alice cook!!




Worst of the west campus houses, which collectively are the best places to live on campus




The insurance is good and you’re covered for a lot but gannett is sometimes error-prone so I always double check any diagnosis I get from there. Also heads up it doesn’t cover ambulance fees from the company in Ithaca (Bangs I think? Haven’t had to use it yet)




you pay ~2k a year for insurance that is ass




Happy end......




how many credits is each class? honestly, seems like a bit much, definitely keep it under 15 for your first semester. you'll have 7 other semesters. plus you want to make friends and have time to explore and join clubs etc etc

e: dude this is 20 credits. that is ridiculous for your first semester jfc chill




Careful with the courseload. It's doable but difficult and I don't want to tell you to do something that's past your comfort level. 

I see you're a CS major, so hopefully CS 1110 isn't difficult; but it will take up time, from what I hear. CS classes have a tendency to eat up your time.

MATH 2210 - y'know, coming from an A&S student that didn't need LinAlg but took it for the hell of it, might I suggest MATH 2940? It's the Engineering equivalent. I dunno if it checks the same boxes you need, but I liked how it was less proof-based. My CS A&S friend took MATH 2210 and hated it. Apparently the curve is nicer on the Engineering side as well, though I can't say for sure. Just look into the options.

And finally, just copypasting this from my earlier advice to Cornell freshmen:

> First year's always shitty. There's an invisible 2-5 credit class in your schedule called "Adjusting to College", and it's a mandatory class for freshmen, both fall and spring. It meets seven days a week, there's no syllabus, the curve is bullshit, and literally everyone pretends they're doing well in it.

In other words: take into account that you're adjusting and that will eat into your life. Take on harder courseloads once you know what to expect, like in the Spring.




Arts linear algebra is probably the hardest class among these.

Is it doable? Definitely. But you should probably relax a bit during your first semester. If you're bored you can always do more your next 7. I'm not even sure if you're allowed to take that many- at least when I was a freshman I'm pretty sure your first semester is capped at ~17?




You still need to take two PBS-AS classes, AP credits can't count for distribution requirements :(




Yeah, that’s reasonable.
The good thing about cs in cas is that you’re not as overwhelmed with stem courses and you can explore a bit more than if you were in eng.

If you wanted to do a bit more exploration in cs... you could take an easy class like 1300 instead of history or something... 

but otherwise you’re fine!! (don’t feel pressured to overload yourself with cs... as long as your in some intro class your first semester you’re fine)




Someone said their bathrooms got renovated recently I think? So at least there's that. Founders 3rd floor here




founders 2nd floor w two of my friends. see you there maybe??




I hear they're looking for applicants for prison guards in the little jail in the back of Okenshields. Ideally you should be 18-24, in good physical shape, and have a weak to nonexistent moral compass. The pay is pretty good for 10 hours a week work, but the mental toll is far greater.




Try working for Hired Hands on the weekends, you can make decent money if you can pick stuff up and put it down without breaking it




as long as you’re not riding them around in the dorm you’ll be fine! quite a few people ride some sort of electric transport around campus and if you chose to get a bike, you’ll probably even have place to store it in the dorm outside your room




*grabs motorcycle*




Do you jaywalk? 


Do you understand now?




[deleted]




Just curious are you the same person that asked this question in the ILR chat forum?




What is replacing it?




I hope you get a gothic for sophomore year to balance things out, you're lucky.




Mews is definitely one of the nicest freshman buildings, what with A/C and modern fixtures and all. From what I've heard, it's a little harder to make friends, because of the "pod"-style layout of the rooms, but it's a minor inconvenience.




Yooo I'm in mews too! Nice




yo same man, feeling blessed




They closed the parking lot that it’s near for construction. Other than that, I was in HR5 last year and enjoyed it. No AC but other than that things aren’t too bad. The sky lounge is nice, although personally I didn’t spend a ton of time there. Rooms are reasonable, randomly because of the layout I would say that 1/3 of the triples on each floor are far better than the others. I had good suite mates (besides one shitty roommate) so overall it was good. Feel free to ask if you have any more specific questions, this is all just stuff off the top of my head.




https://soundcloud.com/user-277818856/chase

This is the only advice that matters




No heating so you'll need to buy 1-2 space heaters for the winter. Gets pretty cold.




courseload is fine, you definitely don't need to add an ENGRI but you can if you feel like it (though in this case stay away from 2112).




If you’re smart and hardworking up to 20 credits is fine. If you’re not confident in your abilities maybe stick to 15-16




Take 2112 if you are very skilled in java and got a 5 in AP comp sci.

It’s basically just 2110 but much faster and harder.




This is exactly how my schedule is looking rn




This is a good schedule. Don't be too ambitious freshmen year




I think this is fine as it is, let's you take some time to get acclimated with college too




No need to add an engri. This is a pretty typical schedule for CS majors that come in w AP credit




This is pretty close to what I took freshman year, except chem instead of phys (and I was in 2110, not 2112). It was not that bad




Hey I'm also a CoE incoming freshman and I'm actually planning on taking exactly the same schedule (probably CS 2112). I too hope it's manageable.




this is very light, i would add the engri




it's a little heavy at 16 credits, wouldn't kill you to drop one cs/math/phys.




You can try do a Co-op. Not withdrawing but still do almost no school.




Are they any co ops in Ithaca so I can still hang with friends




Did a co-op last fall- feel free to DM me. Basically withdrew bc I didn’t do the summer session that a lot of people usually do




I did a fall internship. Just take a personal leave of absence. It's a very easy process--just sign a piece of paper and email your advising dean a few months prior to confirm that you're going back the next semester. Whole thing took 5 minutes for me.




It doesn't look like it's been offered for a few years. 

[http://cornell.catalog.acalog.com/preview\_program.php?catoid=33&poid=16077](http://cornell.catalog.acalog.com/preview_program.php?catoid=33&poid=16077)

From last years catalog, it says it should be offered this year, but something may have gotten in the way (maybe one of the professors is on sabbatical or something). Sorry!




Take PLBIO 2400, easy as shit. BIOEE 1610 is also okay.




> especially the women

The dude numbers are much lower in both cases...




As someone who went to college 30 years ago, it amazes me that your generation has all these matchmaking options we didn't dream of. And yet you still complain about not being able to find a date or partner!




[Finally a reason for my social anxiety](https://imgur.com/a/vyb5B04)




Math 2210 isn't a great class and I found it pretty tough because (at least for me) it was all theory and no applications. Definitely the kind of class where you just need to grit your teeth and get through it if you're not into theoretical math, especially as its your last required CS math class in the sequence. It requires nothing from Calc BC so don't worry about that.




2210 is a big (pr)oof




Take the engineering math courses, they’re way easier and much more applicable.




Thanks a lot for all your replies! Think I will take it in my first year, bc I have to take it sooner or later, so I’d better be done with it before I have to deal with other harder classes in the following years lol. (And yes I decide to take the A&S calculus sequence for CS major, so currently I might not consider taking Engineering math:))




The exemption test tests speaking and reading and writing. idk about the nepali foreign language test but I speak hindi at an "intermediate/advanced level" but cannot read/write for shits. So, I'm in the intermediate reading and writing hindi class and once I take that I'm done. Your situation is probably the same as mine. You take one semester of reading and writing and then you're done.




It's online-only.




Not in PE, but CBT 1550 probably has what you're looking for




PM me I have exactly what you're looking for




Chem 2150 mimics the sensations. It’s offered in the fall.




The instructor is a snapchat e-girl and you have to purchase her premium for the whole semester.




Yes! [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7IwYakbxmxo) is the sign-up link.




Phys 3316




There isn’t a club for kinks?




u/beywiz




yes.....CAB101




I just got mine




Mid June so probably this week




You still have to take the CASE. This is because there are three different Spanish courses that satisfy the Option 1 language requirement, and the college wants to place you in the correct class. 

I’m a heritage speaker, but I still had to take the CASE. Spanish for Heritage Speakers covers different material than the other two Spanish courses, but all three satisfy Option 1. It’s about placing you where you’re supposed to be.




Don't take 1920 if you can. Linear algebra is an important topic for cs majors but the class is pretty shitty at Cornell. It's up to you whether you want to take it or not. You can take 2800 if you want but I would recommend just taking it easy first semester or you might just crash and burn




Since you're interested in Ml/Data Science Linear Algebra is very important, like you can never know too much Lin alg. Whether or not you should skip it depends on you. If you think you knew it well, then you should just take the credit and if you ever have to relearn somethjng it should be easy. But if you have a shaky foundation and take the credit, it may end up screwing you later down the road. Also Idk about your dual enrollment but if it was part of your high school (like you took the class in hs but got college credit as well) , I believe Cornell will not accept it. However if you took it completely separate from your hs (I actually did this with some cs classes that I took at night), then you can transfer them. Also note that the math department will need to review the course and make sure that it's equivalent to Cornells. If it's from a state school or a general good school (I.e Georgia Tech. My friend actually took Lin alg and multi there and was able to transfer both) then its easy. It's when you start getting into lesser rated/community College that you can start running into some issues transferring. Definitely email the math department or go to them during orientation week (they have like open houses where the department/professors answer questions/talk about courses) and they can clarify stuff. Also another thing to note is that even though you're in engineering you can still use the arts Lin alg/multi courses to fulfill your math requirements. The Lin ALg (2210) there is a bit more theoretical than the eng, but can also be a good option. There's also an honors Lin alg/multi track (2230/40) but Its a lot of work, and I would only recommend it if you're really interested in math. Also I don't know if you've taken Chinese or Japanese before or have some prior knowledge of them, but the classes are a good amount of work. Sorry this is so long but hope this helped a bit. I also agree with everyone else, that being take it on the easy side/if you do end up taking on another class definitely don't be afraid to drop. You have lots of time and you don't want to burn yourself out.




[deleted]




No. 

Source: unpaid physics UTA last semester. 

You can tutor for LSC and get paid though.




No, and I believe you can no longer count it toward liberal studies either. AEP and CS UTAs do get paid tho, this is just a PHYS thing.




I believe only Engineering College majors pay their UTAs. So no.




Sure thing




Done! Good luck with your project :)




I joined the full plate farm collective CSA for the summer share 2 years back.  Comes with free herb picking at some of the member farms.  It was a full adult share, because that was the only size available, and I also went for some finger lakes fruit bowl bulk orders to split with friends.  We got a lot of Asian vegetables, I suspect because one of the farmers at Stick & Stone is Asian, which was nice.  
The vegetables and fruit were great and high quality.  I ran into 2 problems, though.  First, there's a lot of vegetables.  Over the summer I had a lot of time and could mostly cook 4 person meals for my apartment each day and use up most of the veggies.  Once the semester started, it really didn't work so well.  Also my share came with a lot of kale and swiss chard.  Unfortunately nobody in my apartment really likes those.  The vegetables also go bad kinda quickly, because they're fresh vegetables.  Second problem: these vegetables came straight from the farm with no washing, so expect to see some slugs and other pests on them and have to wash them off.  Still edible though.  Also the leafy veggies had a bunch of holes from insects.  In general, the veggies aren't that pretty, which could be offputting if you're used to the pristine ones you find in the supermarket.  
Also, delivery was a bit of a hassle.  I had a bushel of vegetables delivered every week to Humec garage.  It's a nice garage, but I then had to carry that box all the way to west every week.  not very fun.  An Ikea bag makes it a little bit easier but still annoying.  If you have a car then you're good to go.

My CSA also let you pick up your share in the commons instead of getting a box delivered.  If you can make it, I highly recommend doing this.  You can put the vegetables directly into your favorite bag instead of lugging a dirty box around, and you can choose the vegetables you want.

Last summer I joined a CSA from my internship's company, and that time I only got a small share (2-3 servings of vegetables) and an extra set of fresh mushrooms each week.  That worked a lot better, even though I was only living with one other person.

Overall I liked it.  Got to try a lot of nice vegetables that I wouldn't have tried if I just went to the grocery store, figured out a bunch of ways to cook a lot of different roots, and learned of the existence of a lot more.

tl;dr: get a half share if possible unless your entire apartment likes to cook and deal with fresh vegetables every single day (I think the Cornell CSA offers this), best is if you can mix and match the food you get.




Disclaimer: I am taking 2201 this upcoming Fall Semester.

In my experience, very few people are able to test out of both 1101 and 1102; I know of a person who tested straight into 1102 (not taking any Japanese class in the fall) but he had taken Japanese throughout high school. 1101/2 is a lot of work (covers chapters 1-20 of Genki and worth 6 Credit Hours each) and hence covers a lot of material. 2201/2 are both 4 credits and move slower (in the time it took to do chapters 1-6 of Genki I, you finish chapters 21-23 of Genki II). 1102 finishes halfway through teaching Keigo, if that gives you a bit of insight into how much you need to know. Either way, I'd say just take the placement exam and do what the professors tell you to. You'll be placed in a course that challenges you and teaches you no matter what happens. Hope that sorta answers your question!




I’m taking JAPAN 3301 next semester. When I was a prefrosh, I went in with the same mindset as you. I’d studied Japanese by myself for about 3-ish years. I knew how to read, basic conjugation, and could hold a basic conversation.

I was placed in JAPAN 1101 after taking the placement test, and the course moved so fast that we covered everything I knew within the first month. I would say that it was good for me, since I got to really nail the basics, especially on the speaking side. 

No matter what class you’re placed in, you’re gonna have a great time. I met some of my best friends in Japanese, and I hope you will too! And wouldn’t it be great if you could start off with those new friends from day one of elementary Japanese?




They teach to the book as far as grammar points are concerned, I just finished 2202 and I think we've covered most grammar points by now. You'll start in 2201 finishing the last 3-4 chapters of genki II then move on to Tobira. It's a difficult jump for some, including myself, to get used to but it feels great when you get adjusted. In genki you'll be covering a lot of verb conjugation which will be a big focus throughout the semester. You'll cover a lot of cultural perspectives that will contextualize what you learn. Usually the teacher will come in to the seminar (with at Max around 20 students) and have a PowerPoint presentation ready for class that day. This is all uploaded online (probably to Canvas), and it's a good thing because you'll realize it's very hard to take notes while engaging in class at the same time in a foreign language. In my experience there was a main professor, a TA (all of whom have been very competent and wonderful to have honestly) and Suzuki sensei who teaches the 3000 level who comes in on Fridays. This may change going into next year but I doubt it. There's a lot of discussion every day, and daily participation is a large part of the grade (20-25% or so). This is different from most other college courses because you're constantly being challenged to think, speak, and discuss topics in a foreign language to the best of your ability.  Every professor I've had so far has been wonderful, but they really push everyone's limits on what they can and think they can do in Japanese.  Homework is nearly every day, typically an in book assignment to turn in on paper the next day along with an online assignment, which more often then not require recording audio. 

Sorry if this doesn't end up being much use to you, but just in general I want to say the professors were excellent in both 2000 level courses, and while homework is abundant it's necessary for learning a language to put a lot of work in. The assignments usually don't take very long individually, don't worry about spending hours on one workbook assignment or something lol. There will be a couple bigger assignments each semester towards the end, mainly focusing on vocal presentation and essay writing. You'll learn how to do all that formally which is one of the most challenging assignments but again, it's all very rewarding with the environment of the classes at Cornell. The class is by no means easy but with motivation to learn you'll get far. Most of my classmates did really well in the course, and please take the advice that so many freshman don't heed, which is go to office hours if you are ever struggling or feel lost. I know I didn't listen to that advice and wish I had in some of my freshman year courses. Some professors can feel less approachable than others, but I think the Japanese professors especially really give off that feeling of wanting to help you however they can. They will be happy to help and if any professor in this class or others says otherwise too bad cause it's part of their job lol. 

I took Japanese in high school which served me well enough to place out of the intro classes, and coming from a background of self study I don't know how different that will be for you, because everyone learns at a different pace.  Best of luck on the placement, and don't worry if you don't get placed where you want. The class moves fast from 1101 and onwards so either way getting used to the pace is the first thing. In my first year at Cornell that has just passed, I think Japanese was my favorite class, and certainly one of the most intellectually rewarding. がんばって!




2019 alum, from what my friends and I have seen with any language class, if the language is not your first language then try and take the lowest course number possible to potentially maximize your grade. Language courses at cornell are some of the hardest because of how much work you have to do and how much is expected of you to be fluent by your third semester of the language.




I forgot to mention earlier that speaking is very important. You need to make sure you can communicate in Japanese (obeying cultural customs and usage) and understand what others are saying to you back. We did this through the Web Audio Lab program in class.




So ... alum here. I took Japanese 20 years ago. Big mistake on my part; I think I got a "D", and that was generous.

Seems to me you're much better off taking the intro course and getting through it easily than opting for a more advanced course and struggling. It's a common tactic for people who know a 2nd language.

Especially since your sentence "I've been teaching myself Japanese for a while now" doesn't imply any kind of immersion or rigor. Japanese at Cornell is pretty serious, or at least it was.

Just my 2 cents.




I’ve had two friends who placed above Intro as freshmen (one in 2201 and one in 3301). Both had actually studied in Japan prior to coming to Cornell. Take that as you will! ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

To answer your question, the friend who placed into 2201 seemed to really enjoy it. Idk much else other than that!




Inbox me - looking to sell an extra for like $50, idc really




Interesting. How much more?




I don’t entirely remember what the distribution was like, but it’s not a tough class. It is definitely less of a science course and more of a mix of history and current events. There are reading and attendance is mandatory. The readings, as long as you get a general idea, you’ll be fine. We had one essay based prelim, but when we took it, the professor basically gave us a bunch of quotes to use. And we got the option of a final project we depended very minimally on the course material.

Tldr, pretty easy. Help always available. Memorization will be needed.




Ling 1101 only has one problem set a week that shouldn’t be difficult. When I took it, scores didn’t even have to be curved because people did so well. Median was always mid-80s/90s iirc. Also Sarah Murray is teaching it this semester and she is absolutely wonderful.




I took both LING 1101 and SOC 1101! Ling is really easy to do well in and has a pretty light courseload; soc has a lot of readings and harder tests in my opinion.




Soc 1101 was a very light course load and very straightforward if you go to lecture




I took this class last semester and found it incredibly helpful. They teach you proper lifting form and then they teach you a variety of routines using body weights, machine weights, barbells, and free weights depending on what you have access to. They give you routines based on your goal, such as weight loss, muscle gain, and strength improvement. When you learn about how to achieve a certain goal, they tell you how to eat generally, but don’t go into intricate detail. Basically the class is 50 minutes where ~15 mins the instructors teaches and the rest you get to work out and practice what you learned. 

I had been trying to lose weight without success for a really long time and I got to my goal weight within the semester because of what I learned in this class. I would highly recommend it!!




i might be totally wrong but I don't think they really teach you anything about what to actually do + diet/nutrition - I think they just teach you lifts and good form

also it might just be olympic lifting (snatches, cleans, etc) - if you're interested in that side of lifting its probably a great class but if not, it's probably not worth your time




Hotelies smh  😔  😔   /s




Press X to doubt




r/iamverysmart




Alumnus/Alumna*




Something tells me he didn't go to cornell...




Yikes




Andy?




Yeah thats what we should all be like. Own it. We didn't do 4 years of frozen hell to not brag about it.




take NS 1150 because if chem 1150 is still taught by the orgo 2 professor then just save yourself the hassle of having that awful man of a professor.

&#x200B;

you should also try that easy physics course PHYS 1201: Why the sky is blue or PHYS 1203: Physics of the heavans and the earth.




I've taken both PHYS 1203 and CHEM 1150. CHEM 1150 is really easy and you just have to go to class and take notes. There's no homework, essays, projects, etc. The prof is a good lecturer too and you will get good grades because the curve for that course is crazy. PHYS 1203 is easy, but I hated the professor and the projects were annoying.




Nah you good, that's a normal stats major schedule, you're ahead in math so you can literally coast through. Think about a minor or double major. You can't really take any other stats since most of them have stats 1 and 2 as prereq. You can start taking stats electives from spring or next fall.

You add PE the same way you add any other courses, add it to your cart on student center, only FWS has it's own system/ballot of adding.




Hey! As a current stats major and former TA for STSCI 2200, you schedule looks perfectly fine and is slightly on the tougher side (because of the MATH). Consider taking MATH 2130 and 2310 combo if you are not thinking of going to grad school (keep otherwise, it’ll help when you take Analysis AKA MATH 3110)
Also, as you are entering the major as a freshman, you will honestly not need to take more than one stats class per semester. Make room for other types of classes!




okay I really hate to be this guy but I've been trying to see a dentist for various reasons for a while and it turns out actually that... none of the dentists in the Ithaca region will accept any insurance. I don't really know why this is at all, but I have done a lot of research and reached out to a lot of places before finally just giving up. if you're comfortable paying out of pocket I would try Dr. Elizabeth Billiot near the Commons, since her practice just seemed like the nicest to me, but I could not afford it. Hope this helps!




https://www.aetna.com/individuals-families/find-a-doctor.html




Real men cry on the outside as well as the inside...




You... shouldn't hate your school that much. Seriously, if it's that dreadful, consider transferring?




no but I cried a whole bunch when leaving it

granted I am a postdoc and I had to go overseas a bunch for my job

overseas to a real hellhole

but I miss Ithaca and Cornell




*from




Why would u do that tho I love cornell




why would you cry :(




This was basically me my first semester. I remember sitting on Shortline and looking into transferring to Columbia, Villanova, Boston College and a few others. One more semester to go (thank god I'm graduating early) and things worked out and I ended up loving Cornell




I just graduated and I cried so much leaving Cornell in the ride back. Which is weird considering I hated Cornell with a burning passion my first few semesters. By the end of my Cornell degree I loved Ithaca and Cornell so much, I hope that by the time you wrap up in Ithaca you will feel the same




Is it that bad?




Nope, I just held onto that feeling deep inside and now I have anxiety! Yay!




Aww why do you cry? Is it the academics? Social life?




Let it out.




haha me too. am from california and my heart always dies a little on the plane/bus ride coming back here. i miss home a lot more than i thought i would




no shot im applying after seeing this sub




Well for one, if you are good in CS you can easily find a job. The same can't be said for ECE. The fact that you are doing an M.Eng and not a PhD or even an MS lets me know that you are not into academia and more into industry.

Source : I did both.




I would say do the CS MEng. Unless you are passionate about the stuff on the hardware side, you will likely become a software engineer of some sort. You might as well pack your resume with a CS terminal degree and open up more opportunities. 

I assume you would be doing the early admit degree (if possible across department). From my experience, this seems worth it and the majority of CS MEng grads end up at great companies. I did CS BA, CS MEng (sort of), and currently ECE PhD. Let me know if you would want to talk on campus (if we don't already know each other haha).




Well for one, if you are good in CS you can easily find a job. The same can't be said for ECE. The fact that you are doing an M.Eng and not a PhD or even an MS lets me know that you are not into academia and more into industry.

Source : I did both.




Alright class, can get boring, pretty easy. Honestly, if you’re alright with HTML and CSS (which are pretty easy to pick up) I would jump straight to 2300.




You can learn the material in a few weekends on your own if you choose to; i agree with the other commenter that this class is skippable.




What if you're in infosci? It's a required course, but can I test out of it and jump up?




So if I’m understanding this right you want to know if it’s possible to fit a 4 year chemE degree in 1 semester?

Edit:

To answer the question: sorta.

130 Credits to complete ChemE Degree ([2015 Handbook](http://cornellengineeringhandbook.freeflowdp.com/cornellengineeringhandbook/8357419513248855/MobilePagedReplica.action?pm=2&folio=38#pg38))

If you have AP Calc BC (4), Multivar (4), AP Chem credit (4), AP Physics C E&M (8), AP CS (4), FWS (6), All liberal studies (18), Major-apporoved (9), Advisor Approved (6) credit, for a total of 63 credits, you're left with 67 Chem credits

Noone really checks prereqs so if you want, you could take the rest of your classes next semester.

A UCLA Professor and Caltech Grad took [60 Credits in 1 semester](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/8b51qe/til_a_guy_graduated_from_cornell_university_with/), so I think 67 isn't a stretch. Though he graduated with 7 degrees from Cornell.




yeah super doable, i actually know a guy who switched from a psych to mechanical engineering major about a week before graduation




If your serious no, unless you’re willing to do 2-3 years of extra undergrad




I really can’t tell if this is a joke or not, like I’m actually clueless




Very much possible, just have to believe in yourself and sleep with a lot of professors.




I don't think ChemE will help you make drugs. Maybe a straight chem major would be more valuable for that.




remeber though, grass is greener on the other side.




I did mine for the spring semester but they were sent out in mid January, pretty sure the ones for the fall are sent out in mid June




I received mine (to CAS) just now.




COE almost 10 days ago




got mine today for SHA




SHA came out today




Can’t be late for class if you never go to class

Gettin’ that 10 hours of sleep




Some people can still do it. I couldn't. My roommate in ECE graduated with >4 GPA in 3.5 years with 8-9 hours of sleep a day. I also knew people who could get through with 5 hours of sleep a day regularly.




Haha... I'm attending PSP... Haha...ha...




Pretty sure he also got sued by Cornell because he made the building very difficult to maintain. Or at least so I’ve heard.




> The only thing that kept Pei from becoming one of the immortals was his paucity of artistic talent

That has to be one of the classiest burns I've ever read.




Subways have AC




Ill sublet my room back home to you.  My mom cooks good food. $2000/month




Gypsy Housing facebook group.

Cornell Weil also has a good page on finding housing in nyc.




Generally grad students live in these things called apartments.




Needs more jpeg




I can’t read that shit smh




“Yeah a 9/10 might sound good once, bUT oVeR tiMe...”
“Oh but the curve will save me right?”
“Can you explain to me how a 96 is a B-?”
“Ahh I’ll cheese this ONE pset, but for the exam I’m gonna study for real”
“I can afford to drink tonight”




Prof. Singer if he’s teaching it is a great professor. Labs aren’t too time consuming, but expect to regularly go to office hours for the homework. The material is really technical but you learn a lot of great things in the class.




Drug delivery is a felony punishable by many years in federal prison, even if you had no part in consumption or sale. Tread cearfully.




Upward trend is considered. When you apply you have to list every single course you have taken plus grade so they can see what kind of flow you had throughout college.




Uptrend is better than no trend or even down trend. Try to get your GPA > 3.7 if you want to go to MD schools




Definitely is considered. My freshman fall was whatever, then I went up freshman spring. I did pretty average even throughout sophomore year, getting multiple Bs and even one C (looking at you, orgo lab). Junior/senior year I did better, and I ended up graduating with a 3.63 I think

&#x200B;

I got into multiple US MD schools on my first try, granted I took one gap year. My MCAT was averagely competitive (31 on the old test). I'm not a URM either. Granted I'm not at Harvard Med or whatever, but it's a US MD school and honestly that's all you need.

&#x200B;

School competitiveness is also considered. I know multiple people from "lesser" schools who got 3.9s with averagely competitive MCAT scores who didn't get any acceptances whereas if you got a 3.9 from Cornell undergrad, you'll end up at a really amazing med school




“Only 3.5?”




nah bro cornell is in it for the long term (building out NYC campuses, expanding influence in influential fields like tech), the ivy league doesn't mean a thing. The rest of the ivies are built off of old prestige and Cornell's just getting started




I can't tell if you're actually triggered but no they don't bother me




They said they’ll agree to stop making those jokes if Cornellians will be kinder to their hockey teams during games in Lynah Rink. NO DEAL




I imagine it could be irritating if you come from a background of Ivy steppers or went to some elite private Ivy feeder high school and they actually "look down" on Cornell but as someone who went to public school and whose family members all went to state schools I couldn't give a fuck less. As /u/punnettsqaure9331 expressed, Cornell has a lot of exciting things brewing ATM and will only continue to grow and gain prestige as time goes on. People who actually care about Ivy League "rankings" are dim, vapid morons undeserving of your time.




like most jokes of this type, its kinda funny in a meme way but can get annoying esp if you have friends/family that are the competitive and prestige chasing type.




I don't care at all lol, Cornell being an Ivy had very little if any role in my decision to apply here




Longtime alum, I have to agree. Cornell is an outlier historically and geographically from the other ivies. Cornell's the only part-public school in the Ivies, the only one that's not a Colonial College, the only one that's not reasonably near I-95. It's also the largest Ivy, the first to admit women, and the only one founded as nonsectarian (although Princeton appears to be "Nonsectarian, founded by Calvinist Presbyterians" according to Wikipedia).

It's a bit perplexing to me how they came to be in the same athletic conference in the first place. I'm actually really curious how it came about.

Oh, right, remember that "Ivy League" is actually just the name of the sports league. There are plenty of fine universities which are not part of the Ivy League.

In the end, your particular field of study and career choice matters more than which university you went to.




Nah we embrace them here, Cornell students probably make more fake ivy jokes than anyone else




I got a pretty good suit from Benjamin Peters in the commons for a concert; if I recall correctly, they had it ready in a week though I don’t remember the price exactly. Unless the cost is a big factor, you probably couldn’t go wrong there. Staff were nice and selection wasn’t bad either!




If they accept your transfer application, you need to contact the office of internal transfer directly if you don’t want to accept the offer. Otherwise you’re just automatically moved to your new college. If you want to decline the offer, you’ve got until the day before classes start to email them so should be plenty of time to make a decision!




As is often the case with these posts.. you hold all the answers already.. the differences between NYU's campus and surrounding area compared to Cornell's campus and surrounding area, will have a far greater impact on you, then the differences between the schools' programs.  They're both good academic choices, but the question should be where will you be happier, more successful and able to apply yourself to your education.




Hi! I'm Dyson '23 and I had to make the same choice you're facing right now. I received almost a full scholarship to NYU Stern but I would be at least 14k in debt when I graduated. I chose Dyson mainly because I would be debt-free after graduation, thereby freeing me financially to go into any field/industry I wanted without worrying about making loan payments. I would say chose the cheaper option and if that's not a concern/problem, I would chose based on preference because they are both GREAT schools for business and you can't make a wrong choice.




I grew up in NYC & never want to go back.  If you want a beautiful campus, go to Cornell.




idk much about business but if I were to take an educated guess I'd say if you want to work in NYC then stern has a slight edge - you can literally subway to your 'super days' (or whatever fuck they're called), have more/quicker access to financial/business/consulting firms, etc. Cornell is still extremely good but as others have said its missing that locality - you'll still have access to great recruiting opportunities but they won't be literally at your fingertips. really don't know enough to argue which program in and of itself has more prestige in a recruiting sense, though

i'd also argue the cornell name carries more weight in other parts of the country/internationally, although I definitely stand to be corrected




I lived in NYC for 14 years (still live here for now), it's overrated af.

(This is not a comment on career opportunities rather just living conditions.)




Probably stern 
Can’t go wrong either way tho congrats!!!




Both are good, but NYC will give you much more opportunities than a small “city” like Ithaca




Not very formal? What major are you affiliating with? The form is afaik is really simple. The only complex online one I can think of is for cs, and that one should also be fairly simple.




I think the research interest question is so they can assign you a vaguely relevant advisor. FWIW I said I was systems and they gave me a theory advisor so lol.




If I was you, I’ll go for the chicken McNuggets & skip the fries...




The intro astronomy courses like 1104 are pretty fun and not too much work. 2212 or 2211 if you're interested in the same topics with more math.




Look into Co-ops, a bunch of them have kitchens with a staples plan.




It's okay I like Friends




I feel like shitting on people who say they like a piece of pop culture to indicate who they are in itself is annoying now. Like what even is a personality? If you say you're funny or creative, that's pretentious too. All we have is stupid shit.




Andy Bernard is my alter ego.




What a lame overused joke. All people ever talk about is Rick and Mitty nonsense but the office oh that’s different cuz it’s mostly girls that say that. Come on, come up with something better.




I was a TA for 1101. The notebook checks are supposed to be comprehensive, but some tas are easier than others. The undergraduate TAs, like me, we mostly chill cause they know what you’re going through with other classes. You learned more with the grad TAs but they would occasionally fail students on a check if they clearly copied or didn’t know the material. If you do everything honestly though and to an ok level of quality, you will never fail. Make sure you do the labs really well first, those are much more important than the hw problems, which we only checked for completion. We also ask some conceptual questions or problem solving questions on the spot, but if you are at least a B student, you won’t have any problem with them.

The class is not hard per se, you just need to be organized and on top of it. Try really hard not to fall behind, take advantage of the staff and the retakes. If you put in enough time, you will get an A and maybe an A+. Great class and nick Taylor is one of the best professors I’ve encountered. Do not take this concurrently with another auto tutorial, it won’t work out well.




Degrees are posted June 14th




Order a transcript, it has your graduation information on it already. Like majors, minors, honours, etc




I took PSYCH 2800 (Social Psychology) last fall and really enjoyed it! Gilovich is a really engaging professor, and the material isn’t too difficult.  There’s quite a bit of reading, but it honestly isn’t that bad.  Gilovich gave us a quiz once where we watched clips from TV shows/movies, and we just had to write down what psychological concepts were being demonstrated in each clip.  If they’re offering the course this fall, you should definitely try it out!!




You should do a minor if you're interested in the course work that it calls for. There's really no reason to do one otherwise.




It's to get baited into doing the CS minor and then dumping your current major for the CS major




In my opinion minors and second majors should happen by accident, i.e. because you just happened to take all of the requisite courses out of interest




as a recently graduated senior, i can tell you that there is no point of a minor other than literally just a chance to take courses you’re interested in! go for it




I took it last fall with Professor Redmond, and the biggest tip I’d say is buy-in. If you come in willing to speak in class, which there’s a lot of and you put effort in the class it is manageable. There were small online homeworks through Connect (which is unfortunately expensive) before every class and the grammar does get annoyingly unintuitive later in the course but all in all the class is not bad if you grew up knowing Spanish. There’s small quizzes which you’re warned about and you can drop one of the tests and the homework counts for a sizable part of the grade so the class is very fair.




OADI




The same places as during the semester? maybe?




You can go home and print off your parent's printer! That's cheap over the summer and even during the school year!




tbh one thing I learned in the ML-type classes is that you can get away with not being able to code very well (just know the material) but you won’t get As. Like usually for those grades it’s a case of “how well do you know scipy/numpy/scikit”




I would argue the type of coding you need is not the type you learn in 2110. If you are good at implementing algorithms in code and you have knowledge of numpy, which are not things you learn in 2110, you should be fine taking this class without it, although I strongly recommend that everyone at Cornell take 2110 at some point.




Yeah you’ll be fine.




I am considering Cornell as a Early Decision option. I will most likely be applying to the Dylon School of Business. Currently, I am a junior in the IB in India. I would like to know how I can further develop my application and some advice about other schools I can consider for an undergraduate business course (Wharton, NYU Stern...). Also, how is Cornell in terms of its location?

Here are my stats, IB Predicted: 42 (Math HL - 6, Physics HL - 7, Econ HL - 7, Art HL - 7, French SL - 7, Lang Lit SL - 5/6, 2/3 for TOK EE) ACT - 33/34 (hopefully and will be taking July 13th, September and October, if needed) Subject Tests - Maths II and Physics, to be taken in October. ECs:

* Economics and Cricket Club created at school. Lead both groups for 2 years.
* 2 Awards for CSR Clubs
* Published an Article and Photo in a Newspaper and Magazine
* Attented Economic Think Tanks
* Sports Leader in 9th Grade
* Fastest Times in 1.5 km and 3 km at school.
* Intered at ATG Tires and another company (will do this summer)
* YYGS Creative Arts and Media (will be doing this summer)
* Live Painting




Is there something particularly special about the CALS professors that I can mention in my essay? I feel like everything I try to think of could apply to any school, such as “Award-winning”
Should I look into specific awards and mention some specific professors I may want orrr...?




Hi, I'm an honors student of psychology in India. At present I have just entered my senior year of grad. I wish to pursue forensic psychology... However I'm not so sure if I should take to clinical for my masters or a forensics course itself. 

If any student of psychology can help me with these questions
> What's the patch Dept at Cornell like?
> What's the recommend GRE score and CGPA to get into Cornell ( ideally per students.. I don't want to go by what website says ) 
> Will my extra curriculars help in getting into Cornell?
> Any advice related to application for when I apply?




I'm a rising sophomore in city college of new york and I want to try a spring transfer to Cornell ILR, but I'm concerned because I did really bad in High School (82 average, I just didn't apply myself beyond the stuff I enjoyed doing and it hurt me for college admissions.) In high school, I  took APUSH, AP U.S Gov, AP Macro, Micro (5,5,3,4 respectively.) 

For High School extracurriculars

*  I  did Model UN for 2 years, and won a few awards
*  Was VP of my Young Democrats Club for the final year of my 2 years with them.
*  In the summer of 2017, I interned for my assemblywoman.                                                                                              
I have a 3.84 GPA after a year of college and I'm a member of my college Debate Team and Progressive Activism club and just completed my spring semester internship with the NYC AFL-CIO. I'm currently looking for another internship for the summer and have a guaranteed one starting around August/September with an NYC Councilmember. As for recommended coursework, I did the 2 terms of English and macro and micro, and I'm doing calculus over this summer (god help me) and plan to take intro statistics and a science class this fall, so assuming calc and stats works out, I'll be in the process of completing all the recommended coursework to keep me on track.   Also, I did apply last March but the application feedback more or less seemed to say that my HS record was what killed me. I'm hoping that 30 credits of strong performance (and a midterm report of another 15 in the fall) rather than JUST 15 would show that I've changed my ways and am ready for the rigor of an ivy.  How strong/weak of a candidate do I seem?




I am currently a rising senior in HS and wanted to gauge my stats right now to see if I could get into Cornell University. My goal is to be accepted into Cornell's undergraduate school of business, and was wondering how I stack up to others who got accepted into Cornell.

I plan on applying binding early decision to Cornell, so that may increase my candidacy.

Personal:
-I am an Indian male with parents who both have doctoral degrees (not sure how this factors in but thought it best to include
it anyway)

Stats:
-SAT: 1530 (took it once, no superscore) 760 RW 770M
-GPA: 4.5
-AP Scores:
Human Geography: 4
Euro: 4
Pending: APUSH, Calc AB, Comp Sci Principles, Physics 1, Spanish Language and Culture,  Microeconomics,
Macroeconomics.

Extra-Curriculars:
-Part of School Band (Percussionist)
-Formed my own band (we play at nursing homes for free for senior citizens)
-DECA Vice-President
-Placed as a state finalist for DECA
-Stock Club Treasurer
-Am a member in NHS, National English Honor Society, National Spanish Honor Society, and Mu Alpha Theta
-Volunteer with a cultural organization
-Interned at a local college for a bio-fuels program
-Won a nationwide contest and lead a team of high school students to India on a 2-week service project to help raise
awareness about nutrition

College Essays: Working on them currently, plan on using my two week service project to India as a main talking point.
Letters of Recommendation: I know I will get outstanding letters of recommendation from my guidance counselor and my DECA adviser, plan on getting one from an English teacher who I have a great relationship with as well




Rising Senior at a college prep school in CT. Looking into computer science.
Ranked 4th in class freshman year but they removed class rank after that (I think I have a chance at salutatorian). GPA: 4.23 out of 4.33 scale. ACT: 34 with 8 writing (took once, might take again). 1470 on PSAT11 and 1460 on SAT (might retake. If I don’t do better I won’t send it). Awarded the Rensselaer medal, bronze medalist French national exam freshman, then 2x honorable mention. Foreign language award freshman year. I run 3 seasons (not good though lol). Doing a week-long networking/computing internship with the technology director at my school. In math, science, English, social studies, and French honor societies. Taken APWH, AP chem, APUSH, AP Lang (only have score for apwh right now but it’s a 3 so rip). 

Looking into the Cornell engineering school btw. I took subject tests but I don’t have them back yet. Might possibly ED not sure yet




How heavily does cornell put an emphasis on the sat?

Im sub 1400.

Valedictorian. 4.0 unw, awards/ecs are great (well rounded with a spike in an area)




Hey there, I'm an international rising sophomore student studying business at a uni in Singapore but looking to apply to ILR in October for Spring Transfer.

Demographics: East Asian Female

HS GPA: No exact number but more or less straight A-/A's and graduated with honors

College GPA: 3.79 (classes are all graded on a curve though)

ECs: Involved in some cultural clubs and the consulting club at my school, and in high school my ECs weren't that great but I had around 3 summer internships at NGOs/start-ups. I'm also currently interning at a tech start-up helping underprivileged students financially.

Applied to Dyson for Fall Transfer but didn't get in because I don't think I was competitive enough, but I realized that I wanna be able to pursue my other interests aside from business and ILR offers a lot of flexibility which I love, and a sense of community that I find lacking currently. I'm technically going into my third year of college as I did one year of uni in the country (GPA was \~3.85) where I'm from but I started as a freshman in Singapore because they don't accept transfers.

Also had two paternal uncles who went to Cornell but not sure how relevant it is (probably not at all lmao) since neither one is my dad lmao




Lol no, not so many people do this. It's normal to do 1920 first semester if you have a 5 on BC, or even a 4 maybe. A great majority of my friends did this, worked out fine.




I took 1910 first after having taken BC Calc. In the long run I don’t think that it helped a ton. I guess all it did was help me adjust to a Cornell math class. I did appreciate taking 1920 in the spring with people who hadn’t taken it before though. The fall semester of 1920 has a lot of people who’ve taken multi already, so they raise the mean.




I got a 4 on BC Calc, but had already taken multi (and did decently meh) in high school, and 1920 was still decently meh. It's hard, but doable.




I'm always an advocate for taking AP credit where you can. If you ever do need anything from 1910, it's so much faster to brush up using internet resources than to spend a whole semester doing weekly problem sets. It frees up your schedule in the long term to get done with the CoE science/math requirements earlier. Of course, if you don't feel confident enough with calc to take on 1920, you can go with 1910. But the admins will ALWAYS say you "need" to take this class, or you "need" the prereq for this other class. 

Sounds like you're an incoming freshman so I'll let you in on a secret: unless a department or professor strictly enforces it, prereq courses shouldn't stop you from enrolling in a class you want to take. Every time I asked to take an elective without some prereq, the prof said it was fine. And it was.




depends on how confident you feel in your calc abilities, cornell math classes are substantially harder than anything you did in high school.




Take 1920 if you got a 5 on the BC exam. I felt very prepared for 1920 after taking BC. You’ll be fine.




I took KOREA 1101 and 1102 last year. The class will definitely keep you busy, you daily homework assignments. The answer keys are all on blackboard but I highly recommend you do NOT copy them, as you will be totally lost in discussion and on tests. Don’t make the same mistake I did. 

As for overall difficulty, as long as you are taking notes in lecture and doing all the assignments on time and actually discussing in section, you should be fine. The hardest part is just learning the sentence structures (very different from English/other Romance languages) and memorizing all the vocab.




u/appleeeeee




i also took kr 1101 and 1102, i recommend it --- it's a lot of work, but the professor is very good, as are the TAs.  :)  there's a lot of practice conversation, much more than foreign languages in high school, so be ready for that.  last semester we had to sing kpop to practice pronunciation, and this semester there were skits.  the written work isn't bad imo, i usually finish in 15-20 min at a leisurely pace, but it depends on how strong your korean is.  definitely worth it for me.  shoot your shot!




Like Korean people...... Many nice lookings...... Goox athletes as well...... Korean strange......




Not vital but extremely convenient. Going 10 hours w/o having to charge is a godsend




If you’re using your computer to take notes and you’ve got an afternoon of lectures, you’re going to need a laptop with longer battery life.




I came in with a gaming laptop, got frustrated, and bought a normietop pretty quick. I would get a longer lasting one.




I had a laptop with 2-3 hour battery life for a few months and it was really frustrating. I would leave my dorm in the morning and not go back until nighttime. If I forgot to bring my charger in the morning (happened a lot oof), I couldn't use my computer for most of the day. I eventually got a new laptop, can confirm very good decision. You can try to make your current laptop work, and if it doesn't, get a new laptop. I see a lot of people with older big gaming laptops and Surface Pros (what I had, heard the newer ones have decent battery life though) on campus, so if they can do it you might be able to too.




Battery life is kinda hUge. I have a surface pro and being able to go meet up with friends to work without worrying about bringing a charger is great




I'd say battery life for at least 6 hrs is good. I usually carry my charger with me in my laptop case, so I can just plug in wherever I see an outlet.




I go to class with my giant Alienware laptop and it’s fine, I just plug in when I get to a class that has outlet access.




If you can carry around a gaming laptop you might as well carry the charger with you. I personally didn't like staying on campus too much so I didn't need it, just test it out for a few weeks, see how much of a burden it is and because you're a govt. major it may not be too much of an issue.




I used to be an avid cuber when I was younger. I’ve amassed quite the collection of random twisty puzzles. Could be fun!




Hi can I join I'm an incoming freshman. I only know the basic strategy to solve.




Hey dude add me to the club my name's Tim and my netid is tdt46.




There is none?




If you’re in A&S, even if you test high enough for a foreign language, you are still required to take at least one 2000 level foreign language course at Cornell.




This is totally fine. Chem 2150 is a very tough class and will take up quite some time but overall it’s a very doable schedule. 

As for FWS classes, they tend to be luck of the draw and highly dependent on your instructor. I would recommend choosing any that strike your fancy and seem interesting.

I personally took Robots and I found it great. I’ve also heard good things about True Stories and Word and Image.




avoid any FWS classes in the English, History, German, Romance Studies or Medieval Studies unless you're interested in those topics as they tend to be harder.

&#x200B;

Sociology, Anthropology, Ethnic Studies etc. would be your best bet for a chill time.




[deleted]




My first six semesters: () - ended up dropping

Math 1910, CS 1110, Span 1230, FWS, PHIL 1100

Math 1920, PHYS 1116, CS 2110, SPAN 2090, FWS

Math 2940, PHYS 2217, CS 2800, CS 3110, (CS 2024)

Math 2930, PHYS 2218, CS 3410, CS 4700, ENGL 2810

Math 4220, PHYS 3327, CS 4820, BTRY 3080, PSYCH 1110, COMP 3300

PHYS 3316, PHYS 3318, PHYS 3310, CS 4670, NES 2680, (PHYS 4444)

My upcoming semesters:

PHYS 3317, PHYS 4230, PHYS 4480, PHYS 4410, CS 4810, CS 4701

Math 4210, PHYS 4443, CS 4410, CS 6110, PE 1515




I should start off by saying that this will not be as useful as you think it is. I came into Cornell with a rough plan of what courses I'd take each semester, but I find that with changing academic interests + the uncertain availability of specific courses, every semester's courses turn out to be very different from what I initially anticipated during the previous pre-enroll. So you should continually re-evaluate your academic journey every semester. Every student's path is quite unique. 

&#x200B;

If only to demonstrate my point about the diversity of paths you might take:

&#x200B;

1st sem: CS1620, CS2112, ECON1110, CS2850, ENGL1167, INFO1998

2nd sem: CS2800, CS3110, MATH2210, MATH2220, HIST2750

3rd sem: GOVT3999, GOVT6019, CS3410, CS4820, MATH4710, MATH3320

4th sem: CS4410, CS4300, CS4999, GOVT6029, GOVT6069, MATH3360




Cornell CS does not need to be hard like most of these comments will have you assume. I spread them out and took classes so that I had time to do the work for each class, finish with an unrelated personal interest minor,  author on a published paper, and graduate with a tech job in NYC.


8 semesters (cs only): 

No CS classes

 1110

2110 2800

3410

4820

4852

3110 4700

4410 4300




only included CS courses/major requirements/external spec courses

cs 1110

cs 2110, 2800

cs 3110, 4320, 4999, engrd 2700, math 2940

cs 3410, 4820, 4999, orie 3800

cs 4410, 4411, 4740, 2850

cs 4120, 4121, 5412, info 4220

cs 5414, 5306

ece 4450, cs 4300




FA15: **CS 2112,** CHEM 2090, ENGRD 2020 (distribution), FWS, MATH 1920, ENGRG  
SP16: **CS 2800**, CHEM 2080, FWS, ENGRI, MATH 2930, PHYS 2213  
FA16: BEE 2600, BIOMS 3150 (external spec), CHEM 3570 MATH 2940, PSYCH 1101  
SP17: From SP17 and on, did research, TA, and project team. BIOMG 3300 (external spec), CHEM 3580, **CS 3410**, **CS 4820**  
SU17: ENGRD 2210, ENGRD 2700  
FA17: BEE 3310, BEE 3500, BIOMG 6310 (external spec), CHEM 2510, **CS 4750**  
SP18: Switched to CS major from CS minor this semester.  BEE 3600, BME 3110, **CS 3110**, **CS 4410**, **CS 4780**, PHYS 3316  
FA18: **CS 4775**, **CS 6670**, **CS 6787**, HADM 4300, MAE 3783  
SP19: BEE 3400, BEE 4530, BIOMG 4400, HD 3620

Core reqs are pretty light I believe so it's easy to fit them all in plus whatever else you want.  Some semesters I didn't take any CS courses because none of the ones offered were interesting.




I was trying out different things earlier on and then decided to just focus in on CS/ECE eventually:

MATH 2930, **CS 2112**, **CS 2800**, PHYS 2214, FWS

MATH 2940, **CS 3410**, **CS 2043**, ECON 3030, PHYS 3316, ENGRI

**CS 3110**, **CS 4410**, ECE 2100, ECE 2300, ECON 3130 (this semester was a nightmare, I was barely alive)

**CS 4810**, **CS 4820**, **CS 6110**, ECE 3140 (this semester was as bad as the previous one, mostly because 6110 is an insane class)

**CS 4750**, **CS 4860**, ECE 4130, **CS 4999** (was applying for jobs/grad school this semester, took it light)

**CS 4700**, **CS 4701**, **CS 4780**, ECE 3150, PSYCH 3140, **CS 4999** (used CS 4999 as research credit towards technical writing)

EDIT: If you have any specific questions let me know. I TAed for each of the last five semesters also.




#Freshman year:  
## Fall
- MATH 1910
- CS 1110
- CHEM 2090
- NTRES 1200 (FWS)
- PE 1300 (bowling lol)

## Spring
- MATH 1920
- CS 2110
- PHYS 1112
- ENGRI 1220 (Earthquake!)
- COML 1106 (FWS)
- PE 1300 (bowling, again)

#Sophomore year (planned):
## Fall
- MATH 2940
- CS 2800
- PHYS 2213
- GOVT 1111
- CS 2850

Edit: most other first year engineers I knew had very similar schedules to this, with varying levels of honors courses like CS 2112 or PHYS 1116 (of which I took none!).




https://i.imgur.com/aM4WsdJ.png

Crossed out ones I withdrew from




**CS 2112**, MATH 1920, PHYS 1116, CHIN 2201, ENGL 1168

**CS 3110, CS 2800**, PHYS 2217, MATH 2930, ECON 1110

**CS 3410**, PHYS 2218, MATH 2940, AMST 1101, research for credit

PHYS 3316, PHYS 3360, MATH 3110, MUSIC 1105, research for credit

PHYS 3317, PHYS 3327, PHYS 4480, AEP 4210, research for pay

PHYS 3316, **CS 4780, CS 4850**, COGST 1101, research for pay

PHYS 6572, PHYS 4230, **CS 4700, CS 4701**, PHYS 4410, research for pay

PHYS 4444, **CS 4820, CS 4410**, MATH 4500, research for pay

Note that I took a break from CS for a little while so my schedule is a bit unconventional




I came in as a BME and then switched my freshman spring

() are liberal studies, * is bio minor

Freshman Fall: math 1910,  phys 1112, FWS, ENGRI 1337, PE, BIOG 1500*

Freshman Spring: Math 1920, (PSYCH 2150), (LGBT 2290), CS 1110

Sophomore Fall: Math 2940, CS 2110, CS 2800, PHYS 2213

Sophomore Spring: Math 2930, ENGRD 2700, CS 3110, CS 4700, BIOG 1440*




Keep in mind that I didn't decide on CS until Sophomore year

BIOMG 1350, CHEM 2070, FWS, PMA 3620

BIOG 1440, CHEM 2080, FWS, PMA 4620, CS 1110

CS 2110, CS 2800, CS 2024, MATH 1120, MATH 2210

CS 3110, MATH 2220, MATH 3340, MATH 4710, PMA 3650

Upcoming semesters (hopefully)

CS 3410, CS 4820, CS 4780, CS 6861 (really tenative at the moment), ASIAN 2211, maybe consult for a class

CS 4410 (with prac), MATH 4310 (or 4340), MATH 4130, some flavor of distribution requirement

JAPAN 1101, MATH 3210, MATH 3220 or MATH 4410

JAPAN 1102, CS 6110 (if I get permission), whatever will get me to full time student for the rest




Another question: is CS 1300 worth it, or is there another class from which I will probably learn everything in CS 1300 later?




I'm going into sophomore year, here's my first two semesters:

**FA18**

* ENGL 1105 (FWS)
* SPAN 2090
* CS 2110
* MATH 1120
* PE 1580
* INFO 1998

**SP19**

* ASTRO 1102
* CS 2800
* STSCI 3200
* ECON 1120
* MATH 2210

**FA19**

* CS 3110
* CS 2850
* GOVT 1111
* PHIL 1100

After my first year, thanks to AP credit, I've been able to clear out preliminary CS requirements, finish my math requirement, and filled out a fair number of my distribution requirements. I also joined a project team in the spring after the drop deadline, and I would strongly recommend against that courseload+project team+club sport. I found it to be more than I could handle, and my grades suffered significantly.




Yeah, you can do an honors thesis, which is where you do a research project with a professor in any department - generally the one you're already working with - and present about it. The requirements are as far as i know not extremely stringent. Why you would want to do one is beyond me, but about 1/4 of the department did it this year so it can definitely be done.




Curious about this as well




just finished freshman year in physics here, how do you pursue an honors thesis and is it advisable?




Negatives: Although it’s fewer classes, they will be harder classes and will likely eat up more time than the easy electives. They also won’t boost your GPA as much. 

Positives: med schools prefer chem majors over bio majors because they have so many bio majors applying. But I would say a higher GPA matters more than a second major. However, I would also think that chemistry gives you more opportunities than biology if you go outside the medical field.




If you can pull it off, sure. But those upper CHEM classes might beat you down, both effort- and GPA-wise.

Aside from the electives thing, if you're trying to do this to help your odds at med school, I'm not sure it's worth it. I personally wouldn't do it, but I might just be more risk-averse than you are. 

My only basis of judgment is that I had a friend (recent graduate) who was one of the brightest people I knew, and they planned to do a chem/bio double (taking many of those classes) but later decided against it as an upperclassman, instead choosing to focus on more, non-academic aspects of their Cornell activity and med school application. They got into a top-tier med school, much better than they expected.




know someone who did this with gen bio conc.

&#x200B;

Doable for sure.... if you're concentrating in biochem/interested in chem major chances are chem classes aren't something you're bad at. I'd send it.




>Even if people generalize CALS as a relatively easy school in comparison to the other Cornell schools 

CALS still has stats, a bunch of pre-meds, biomed eng (i think), and info sci (which is as easy or as hard as you want it to be)

sure it might not be as hard as engineering (due to their concentration of difficult majors) but it certainly doesn't have a reputation as being easy imo

i'm not in cals so idk but i'm also pretty sure the actual agriculture related programs don't have that many people in them




people who generalize CALS as a relatively easy school are not worth caring about. in the end, we all get the same degree from cornell university. The rigor is also pretty tough (especially in STEM majors) and i have not seen any tangible difference between the intelligence of a CALS versus CAS student and etc.




Pro tip: the hours you report don't have to line up with how much you actually work. So like work through lunch all you want, but you're required to take a 30min break by NY law if you work 6+ hours. (I do research for pay, so it's highly tempting to just work forever)




You wouldn't get in trouble, your employer would. Just fudge your workday schedule and give yourself the mandatory break but have the total hours be in line with what you actually worked.




HD 3660 is a super easy A or A+, but its also really interesting and the prof is great




Personally I think people are being distracted by the wrong thing here.  Yes the ice cream is better than most but it won’t change your life.  On the other hand, Cornell’s chocolate milk could wake you up from a coma.  Not everyone might agree with me but I couldn’t imagine there being a better chocolate milk out there then I’ve had on campus.




I’d say it’s richer than most ice cream. It might be gassed up a bit (although I’d still say it’s better than most ice cream) so I don’t think it’s different enough to let it make or break your decision to go to Cornell.




Cornell’s peanut butter is straight fire too




Milkfat, mostly.




I drink an unhealthy amount of cornell dairy chocolate milk it the best




I don't know how unpopular of an opinion this is, but the ice cream itself is nothing spectacular. I mean, it's good, but it's not critics-are-raving good. (I might be biased, coming from Wisconsin, but I honestly don't know how far the quality ceiling of ice cream can get.)

I will say the flavor selections are pretty solid, though. They're constantly innovating new ones and most of them are pretty good hits, with a certain level of excitement in dining halls when some good rotations show up.




Honestly, I don’t care all that much for Cornell Dairy. It’s certainly better than most ice cream/milk but what I would be more concerned about is normal food. Cornell dining is like 3rd best in the country and is so great to have on campus. However, I would say don’t look back for something that trivial. You should focus on where you are now and enjoy your time at the school you chose. Trust that you made the right choice for you.




It's because our cows are so smart.




Even when it is a bad recipe, you can always pick......




It's incredibly rich and sweet. I wasn't a huge fan of most flavors tbh, except for Ezra's morning cup (that shit's fire).




Tbh it's nothing special but the food (not just dairy) is fairly good, it usually ranks near the top, still I'd never choose a school based off food alone, I can eat literal crap as long as the school is good. 

Other than the dairy products served in the dining halls I doubt most people actually go out of their way to get Cornell's ice cream from the dairy bar more than just a few times in the 4 years (usually freshman year as a novelty or if you got classes nearby), it's really not as big of a deal as it seems from the outside.




If you really wanna know take FDSC1101 the food science class about ice cream that’s an hour long seminar once a week 9/10 would recommend




Unpopular opinion but I think Cornell ice cream is overrated. Too much milkfat for me. I actually prefer ice cream bought from the store such as Ben & Jerry's or mochi.




People get really excited because it's made on campus and some flavors are student invented and I have heard it's very good but you can get better at most supermarkets tbh. It's more just that the school has a bit of a dairy culture so it ends up being like a school spirit thing for a lot of people.




>while the school I'll be attending has a repute for awful food

















Don't worry. Cornell also has awful food; you're not missing out.




nah, i was definitely a few weeks late with them and literally nothing happened at all. don’t stress about it




I literally did not fill those forms out until two months into school and was still fine. They might charge you a fee of $200 if you don't get it done in the first few weeks of school, but you can call them and they'll waive it for you if you just say you forgot and are a freshman. 

&#x200B;

There is a hard deadline required by New York State otherwise Cornell would not be allowed to enroll you as a student but that one is significantly after the posted Cornell deadline. make sure to make that one, I think the deadline was in October ish.




DM me.




something tells me i should try not to be on campus next year




Check out the Piggery! They’re a local butcher in Ithaca with all the cuts of meat that you could ask for.  They make their own hot dogs. They also have distribution throughout Greenstar and Wegmans (I believe), so they might have the scale you need for thousands of hot dogs.




i graduated a year too early




I would try a butcher, but I don't know where one is off hand. I worked with a guy last summer who shot a deer and had the entire thing into venison dogs (which were excellent) and his family ate a lot of hot dogs for a year. I'm sure you can do the same thing with no animal in hand and a lot more money.




tbh Amazon




I got some raw dogs right here baby as long as you supply the buns




You could post in r/Ithaca to find local businesses that might be able to help you




I'm scared




Overall I really liked the class. Professor Rutledge is pretty funny professor. 

This isn't really an intensive chemistry class, I think it's mostly for AEM/CALS majors to satisfy their chem graduation requirements without tanking their GPAs. As long as you did reasonably well in AP chemistry you'll be fine. 

The midterms and final are almost impossible to finish, and the average person will get like 50% on them, but the curve is heavily in your favor so don't worry too much.




It’s good to get started on your language early. That’s a smart move. Chem is a must and a bio class is a good choice. I do think this a bit too much and unless you only have to take one FWS and can put if off till next semester. I honestly would take off philosophy unless you really want to take it and it’s an easier course. As it stands, it’s a bit too much imo.




Any courses under 1100 (and any PE) does not count towards 120 academic credits.




Looks pretty much like what I did, just with a math class in place of the philosophy class, and a different language.

Depends strongly on what French - is this an intro class or are you placing in? Intro classes are highly demanding and time-consuming, so if it's intro I'd drop PHIL. Otherwise very doable, assuming you have some decent HS background in bio + chem.

Re: CHEM1007 - they'll tell you about this in the first lecture of 2070 but you don't have to enroll to go to their sessions. It is 1-credit S/U (pretty much just attendance-based), so it's not going to change your GPA or anything. You also don't have to stress about getting it in your pre-enroll because they'll definitely let you in through Add/Drop once the semester starts.




I would recommend attending 1007. It is a nice complement to 2070 as it provides good practice. It only meets once a week. It’s a 1 credit class and I’m pretty sure it’s pass/fail.




No




Yes. You can place out of calc 2 with a CASE Exam




Just sign up for what you want to take and they prob won't care either way. I signed up for French 2090 without a placement exam (or having even spoken a word of French in 4 years). They ended up making me take it a few weeks into the semester, and I didn't get the "required" score for my class. Didn't get kicked out though, which was good bc it was my last semester and I needed that class to graduate.

Same principle applies to pre-req courses btw.




If you’re engineering ur auto in Calc 2




depends on your school iirc?   


I got a 4 in calc AB (subscore) and a 3 in BC and im in college of engineering, and had to take 1910 again. might be different for CAS of CALS




You only get credit for 1910 if you get at least a 4 in BC calc. So, rip. You might need to CASE out of it you absolutely want to skip 1910.




no




Hotel School hardest college confirmed




This is a pretty interesting post. It was my understanding that STEM means were higher than average, but I guess not. I’m interested in the change in medians over time. Anecdotally, all my classes this semester were median B+, which were all historically low. Quantum was an A two years ago, now its a B+, with the same prof. Its my suspicion that this is intentionally done by the physics dept.




[deleted]




A statistical clarification, just because X college has a lower median than Y college doesn’t make X harder than Y, since Y could have a bottle neck of smarter/harder working students or require more overall work to get the median




Wow this was so good!




and if you want to peep his best song before he became famous https://soundcloud.com/paulitics-1/youth-paulitics1

*holds up Pitchfork*




Try to place out of 1920. That class is a nightmare.




I heard 1920 CASE is pretty difficult, but the class still gives me nightmares so yeah try to place out of it. Good luck.




I had taken multi before in high school, but didn't really fully understand the material. Tried the case for 1920 and didn't make it. Multi is actually really tough. Physics might be a bit more bearable to self study, but I would go with whatever subject you're most confident.




Honestly both classes are painful. If you have time for both I would study for both but if I had to prioritize one I would choose multi. That class is a nightmare.




I believe E&M requires proficiency in multivariable so if you dont know Multi you probably cannot CASE out. 1920 on the other hand was a relatively easy math class so dont be too worried about it. If anything taking the summer to enjoy yourself(or add something to resume) might do more good for future you than these CASEs




Crazy idea, but maybe email them and ask?

How can I get in touch for more information?

Call toll-free 800-279- 3099 (between 6:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. EDT on Giving Day) or e-mail givingday@cornell.edu.




C2C and then Uber from like cornell club. C2C also have way more space between seats and in the walk space. Probably cheaper than flying from here to wherever.




Check out zimride. There are some folks on there who would probably do it. Don't know how active the site is over the summer though




PJ flight to jfk or an Uber some people would probably decline the Uber but you could probably find someone that would take you.




Ourbus has 1-2 buses a day that go direct to JFK.  Unfortunately, doesn't seem like any are scheduled in the next week or two :/




sorry about your foot :(




Might be better to do ICN->DTW->ITH/SYR
Pm me if u need more info




You can call/text Uber drivers before they arrive to see if they're ok with driving so far. However, $300 is really low for that far of a drive.

&#x200B;

Another other option is to Uber up to Syracuse and fly back to JFK but you're still going to have to deal with moving between terminals with your luggage. Personally, I think the campus 2 campus bus suggestion is the best.




Any korean taxi service will be reliable. Call multiple ones and ask for prices and take the lowest one.




Fly from Ithaca to Newark and then Uber to JFK is my best guess 🤷🏻‍♂️




Go for it! Freshman year is all about exploring your interests. Plus, this is the very first (academic-year) semester that ASL will be offered. You'd be in the inaugural class!

(Speaking as a linguistics major, ASL could totally relate to Psychology! You could combine your interests within the field of [Psycholinguistics!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psycholinguistics))




ASL could very well be related to your field if you’re considering psychology! Also, you’re in Arts & Sciences, you have more room to explore classes not directly related to your major than a lot of other students do. Go nuts!




It also counts for your language requirement if you keep taking it and then take a 2000-level. Even if you don't wanna use it for your language requirement, you should definitely take it!




It’s already full




you’ll be fine if your grades slipped a little, as long as your gpa avg is close (.5ish difference max maybe) to your junior yr gpa i wouldnt worry.




Just don't fail classes or get a bunch of C's and you should be good.




If you haven't already done your due diligence and sacrificed a lamb to the original gods, you are probably going to get rescinded.




Embrace your senioritis.




Whats your metric for “best”...?




Why do you want to double major? InfoSci in CALS is an extremely flexible and diverse major with plenty of routes to dive deeper into a particular focus of your choice (in fact, you’ll need to choose a concentration for the major). I enjoy the major TONS and have found that not doubling up left me room to pursue electives across subjects that I was actually acutely interested in. I’ve heard that modern employers are less interested in seeing your double major and more interested in knowing that you pursued your passion with true interest and expertise — vertical depth vs horizontal breadth.




Well take a look at the requirements for each major and see if there are any overlaps/ which combination would better suit your preferences.... adding a business minor instead of another major would of course be easier




Doing a double major in info sci and aem (with a concentration in business analytics) is possible/feasible because there is some overlap. A lot of material in these majors supplement and enhance each other as well. 

BioStats is of course great for increasing your analytics mindset and is beneficial if you want to go into data science or other more technical fields.

A business minor is less time intensive and allows to bypass a lot of the aem major requirements amd just focus on classes you want to take.




Info sci and stats go together really well since there is a lot of overlap. That sounds like an extremely useful degree, and would give you tons of data science knowledge. Would be more mathematical and hard skills than business stuff tho which idk a lot about




Well you didn't tell us what you want to get out of it, I may be a bit biased but I'd say double major with Biometry, it's very flexible and overlaps with info sci and can open up data science and other great fields.




CFCU has lots of free ATMs in their network, friendly tellers too. Nice mobile app and easy mobile check cashing. That's about the depth of my experience, wish I had more info for you




I have CFCU. Nothing notable, just a regular checking account with a credit union. They do require that you have $5 in your savings account I believe that is used to stake your place in the credit union. Other than that it's like any other bank account.

I don't know much about Tompkins Trust but it's probably the same as any other bank. You shouldn't have much trouble with whatever you choose.

Word of advice tho, the lines at the Cornell store for the respective banks sometimes get long at the end of the day with people rushing to get checks or deposit money. I usually go during non-peak hours to avoid it.




If you want a savings account, I'd recommend Ally bank.  They're online only, which shouldn't be too much of an issue since you can just set up direct deposit into them and savings accounts only get 6 free transfers out of them a month anyway.  Their rates are much higher than you can get from other banks--currently it's 2.2% APY (by comparison, both CFCU and Tompkins Trust have APYs of 0.1%-1%, and CFCU only offers 2% APY if you get a 60 month CD).




[deleted]




Tompkins Trust - used it for ~4 years. Would recommend. Same type of experience as these other CFCU commenters.




Ally Bank. They have better rates than anyone brick and mortar, and will cover ATM fees on the checking account up to some amount each month. You can set up a direct deposit or deposit checks through the app.




Alum here. I've had my CFCU account since 1984. We got our kid an account also.

They have a decent online presence, and have always been helpful when I have had to call about something.




Compare the fees for the services that you are likely to use. Tompkins came out ahead at the time I was choosing. If you are interested in credit unions in particular, see also Alternatives CU. Neither TT or CFCU support ApplePay (when I asked them about 2 months ago). I think Tompkins just got mobile check deposit. Alternatives supports both.




Do you travel? Don't use CFCU because even if you tell them ahead of time, you'll be SOL when your account is frozen because you tried to withdraw money on a Saturday from a Mexican ATM (and no one can un-freeze your account except during business hours). Do you use online tools track your spending (like Mint)? Don't use CFCU because their online security measures break those tools on a regular basis. On the flip side, their employees are friendly, but so are TTs and it was just so much easier for me to use their services.




Anything but Tompkins trust




Definitely Tompkins. They have a branch at Cornell, and they offer free student checkings also with locations all around Ithaca. They’ve always been really helpful with me for things like overdraft fees and card issues and when I had an account with cfcu they didn’t really help me




They said that as a student I will have no fees but then they slap me with a no activity fee when I was gonna over break it ended being like 40$ , but it's the principle over the amount




If you are willing to wait until the spring, I would recommend INFO/CS 2300. You need some basic understanding of HTML and CSS but Kyle Harms functionally assumes no coding experience when teaching PHP (spent some time in lecture explaining what functions are). The class is an easy A provided you follow directions and a good way to ease into coding before taking more intensive classes like 1110 or 2110.




CS 1110 and unpopular opinion, CS 1300. The argument for 1110 is already around so won’t parrot anyone but 1300 is just interesting because it’s also a soft dive into “typing shit into a notepad and watching the results unfold” plus since webdev is like everywhere I think it’s nice to get one’s feet wet in it.




Take CS 1110! In the Fall, it's taught by Walker White, and he's generally regarded here as an amazing professor. I decided to add a minor in CS immediately after his class.




I wouldn’t say there are many “easy” CS classes, but they are all very rewarding! No matter what you take, you’re bound to run into great professors and interesting material alike. Of all CS classes, CS 1110 and CS 2110 are probably considered the easiest; this is mostly because they’re the intro classes to the major / minor. If you’re good at proofs / logic then CS 2800 might be easy for you, but I found that I needed to put a lot of work in to succeed.




Just check your email, there should be a link to a website with a checklist for everything. From there you should be able to find the housing portal. I doubt anyone remembers the specifics of when and where these things come out.




The to do list says that we get our housing assignments in mid-june so I guess we gotta wait another week. And it comes by email.




Yeah you can do what rain4est said or you can google "Cornell todo list'




Not sure why people are saying freshmen housing is guaranteed bc that definitely wasn’t the case for me. Plus I heard this class is a lot bigger than years past, so it’s definitely likely you might have to sign a place in Collegetown. 

I would recommend combing craigslist and Facebook for a sublet. Lots of places are already gone by this point and if you don’t have something lined up it could really demolish your freshmen year experience.

Best of luck OP! I just signed a place right next to campus and am mega stoked to live in an apartment. No pesky RAs or oddball floormates to deal with seems like a good vibe to me.




[removed]




If you already have a background in Spanish and are okay with busy work, it's fine enough, just plan your semester's schedule around taking a Spanish course. I had a difficult time because SPAN 1230 meets 4 days a week with graded homework every class, and then SPAN 2090 was 3 times a week and there was at LEAST 2 homework assignments each class (homeworks were graded on completion). Spanish (and I assume some other language courses) is taught with a flipped classroom, where you basically have to teach yourself the material at home and then practice in class by speaking in Spanish with your classmates. The classes can't be taken pass/fail, so you can't really half-ass anything.

Other people might disagree with me, but PM me if you have any more questions.




As far as Cornell courses go, it's not too bad. As long as you do the homework, most people get at least a B.

If you have 3-4 years of Spanish experience from high school, I'd highly recommend taking the language placement test. SPAN 2090 is only 3 days per week, while SPAN 1110 is 5 days per week. It'll save you a lot of time and Intermediate level Spanish really is pretty doable if you have a basic grasp on conjugations and small talk.

Of course, it's completely up to you. Good luck!




Fuck Cornell Spanish. Literally the hardest classes I’ve taken at Cornell and I’m a CS+Physics double major.




I took 18 credits last semester and ~50% of my time was taken up by Spanish 2090. I’ve gone back to Ecuador and spoke nothing but Spanish for a few weeks and the class was still hard cause there was so much work.




If you can test into SPAN 2095 you should do it – it's not nearly as grammar/"busywork" intensive as 2090 or 1000 level classes. It's worth taking the CASE exam in the fall to see where you'd get placed.

&#x200B;

Also, it may be worth considering the fact that Spanish is probably the most useful language you could take if you're planning on spending your life in the US.




Wow- I’m surprised by all the hate on the 2090 workload. I’m a Spanish major so take it with a grain of salt- but I objectively don’t think 2090 is much work. If you can try to place into it I would recommend it. I took it fall of freshman year and all my friends in 1130/1230 had WAY more homework than I ever did




All languages are hard to some extent. It really depends on a combination of your natural aptitudes and time studying. The Romance languages (those based on Latin Spanish, French Italian etc) tend to be easier for English speakers while languages that use a different alphabet (Chinese Japanese Russian Arabic etc) tend to be more difficult. 

Spanish is the default easiest language to fulfill the requirement. You should get it done as soon as possible though. The classes take a ton of time and it’s easier to do earlier in your degree when you are not taking the more difficult upper division courses. Don’t end up like me trying to pass intermediate italian second semester senior year...




Haven’t taken Cornell Spanish but I took both intro classes for German and they were still somewhat work intensive but definitely doable with other classes. The professors are all really kind and do their best to make German fun, but it does still meet 4 times a week. You’re also allowed to make a bunch of mistakes without really sacrificing much, getting a B is very doable.




I don't have too much to add but if you're thinking about Latin, I'd say avoid if you're just trying to take the easiest path. I've met a lot of people who took Latin under the logic of "at least I don't have to speak it," and each of these people have said it's miserable and they wish they had taken something else.

Granted, it varies from person to person but it's something to keep in mind.




On a related note, does anyone have the SPAN 2090 syllabus?




German is a consistently easy A and the department just wants people to take it, so they are pretty chill. Just saying




Has anyone taken span 2000 and know what it’s like?




I scored *exactly* the cutoff for 2090 when I took the LPS, and after some deliberation, decided to suck it up and take the class. It was definitely hard work, but was definitely manageable and engaging. The classes are run pretty well, and there were moments where I enjoyed learning the language.




yeah this would be so helpful!!!




GPA-wise, yes. Many places have a minimum GPA for internships (3-3.5 depending on industry).

However, I don't recall ever handing over a transcript, neither official nor unofficial, to a potential employer until after an offer was extended when I went through this process.




The salient statistic is the overall GPA, or maybe also the GPA in-major. The line items don’t really matter and are unlikely to be scrutinized or even seen by a decisionmaker.




Similarly, I got a similar # of C's, but my previous semesters were able to buffer my GPA. I would aim to raise it next fall. Also, be sure to only put your GPA on your resume if it's above 3.




I've never had a recruiter ask me for my GPA.




I’ve never been asked to show my transcript or say my gpa (so far at least)




yeah that looks kinda bad. You may not make GPA cutoffs for some internships.




Someone needs to take this data and prove that grade medians go up as you advance through college. 

I bet the median of the median grades for 1xxx classes is a B and that of the 4xxx classes is either an A- or an A




So 1112 has a higher median than 1116




Do you want us to remove classes with SP18 and replace it with SP19 medians?




No humanities reeeeeeee




http://booksdescr.org/item/index.php?md5=C07AAE2722D277CD3ACDF0DA2EB3C942





Click one of the sites listed as "mirrors".







To find other textbooks use libgen.io.




Wuv.com




Music is banned on campus and in the city of Ithaca




Check out Okenshields, they play some sick bangers




[deleted]




Well, there's the guy who sells his mixtape on the commons.




i love indie rock but I have no idea if there’s an actual scene on campus. Downtown Ithaca, however, has some cool venues that I visited for a few concerts last year. Check out The Haunt, I saw a band there and it was awesome




Fanclub Collective is what you're looking for.




My friend who’s into indie rock/pop punk is constantly leaving Ithaca to catch concerts. Syracuse and Rochester get some action, we generally don’t. Best concerts you get will probably be those coming to Cornell University itself, and our programming boards don’t lean towards this type of music. 
Edit: Make your own band and change this!




Ithaca’s a huge Indie Rock venue. Check out Cornell’s Fan Club Collective. They drew some great acts when I was there.




In terms of indie and indie-adjacent bands in the Ithaca area, Twin Peaks, Punch Brothers, Sandy Alex G, Lucy Dacus, Dum Dum Girls, OK Go, Shakey Graves, and They Might Be Giants came this past fall and spring semester.  Okkervill River is coming over the summer.  I also know Rainbow Kitten Surprise and Built to Spill will be here next semester.  

There are also some smaller house shows in the area, but I'm not too plugged into that scene.  Overall, coming from near a city, I find it sufficient but not incredible.




Co ops and Ithaca college sometimes host DIY-y shows and the haunt can have pretty good stuff. Also Ithaca Underground is like the local DIY association type thing that hosts a lot of shows around Ithaca.




Consider joining WVBR (alternative music station) next year!




Especially when considering the size of the town, I've been very impressed with the bands that have come to local venues. There have been some pretty great shows at The State Theatre and especially at The Haunt, both of which are downtown. Ithaca seems to attract a pretty wide range of music. While I can't speak as much to clubs/listening groups on campus, I'd say that downtown has a pretty good scene.




I have a Spotify account if you would consider that a ‘scene’.




There are a bunch of good venues in the area for professional shows, also check out the concert commission we're pretty into live music :)




Lit




This might be a question for career services.

If you're in arts, I've talked to Autumn Moser (see https://as.cornell.edu/as-career-development), who said she has some expertise in helping CS (or maybe "STEM") students (relative to the other counselors I assume). 

If you're in engineering, I'm sure their career services would have someone appropriate.




If your gpa is 3 or above put in on your resume. 

&#x200B;

Not sure what a CS GPA is though, do you mean your GPA if you just count CS classes? Don't put that on your resume, it's not an official metric anyone uses. Just use your cumulative GPA. Also in my experience GPA almost never comes up past the initial screening, and a 3 is fine for a CS major.




[deleted]




From my experience, Rutledge writes tough exams and makes his TA’s grade lab reports very hard. Still, the class is only two credits and he teaches everything you need to know at lecture so as long as you prepare well, you’ll do fine in the class. His office hours are very helpful as they’re not usually packed. Just remember to submit your reports as word documents and not PDFs (if you submit through then google drive option on turnitin, it will convert as such) to avoid getting a zero; this was a pretty big problem last semester.




Orgo lab pairs well with 3580. I recommend taking them both at once. The semester will be filled with orgo, but you def don’t need to study the same things over two semesters.




You don't exactly need Chem 3580 to do well in orgo lab. You can go to OH for your lab reports and the exams are pretty straightforward and much less of a crapshoot than regular orgo exams. That being said, you can also just take orgo lab the fall after Chem 3580 (that's what I did and it was fine). The advantage is that you'd be taking it with Phys 2207 (presumably) which is much lighter than Chem 3570 and you would already be familiar with the reactions.




These are only my opinions, classmates did not necessarily have the same experiences:

3330: Overall slightly less painful than an individual honors intro course -- slightly more time-consuming. Slightly easier in terms of "puzzle solving" but somewhat harder in terms of mathematical depth sophistication and volume of homework.

4200: Did not take, took 4210 back when the sequence was 4210-4220 (4210 was somewhat easier than honors physics intro)

3610: Overall slightly more painful -- weirder math, but volume of homework somewhat lighter.

3630 (w/ Gruner): Overall more painful -- annoying labs, material was neither interesting nor useful to me (totally subjective of course)




I mean you kind of have to do this if you're a junior and this is where you're at, unless you want to take 3630 in spring. If you're a sophomore I would drop 3330 and maybe 3630 and try and take an interesting elective because this courseload is gonna be fairly rough.  
For me personally I found 3610 to be the easiest of these courses by some margin and comparable to 2218. The rest of them were significantly more boring/annoying and I was not a fan of them; 4200 (4220 at the time) was less bad than the other two. For me quantum and applications of quantum is the interesting stuff and you should go this route because that's where exciting physics stuff is happening now and you want to get into it early.  
Also I'd consider the workload from 3110 and 3630 to be similar, and which class you like better depends a lot on you as a person. For the most part if you're considering taking 3110 you'll probably prefer it over 3630 imo.




Probably too light tbh. Take a few more credits to at least reach 23 just to be safe.




Yes but it will probably be pretty expensive due to the late hour and the fact that it's Summer break. Cross reference prices with local taxi companies in Ithaca to see which is cheapest.




Don't count on it. Ive nearly missed flights like this. Give yourself 40 + minutes to wait on a taxi




how about walk to airport Cornell students very slothlike like sloths!




You can schedule collegetown cab, a lot of people use those to go to the airport (at similar hours and otherwise).




[deleted]




I'm not sure if you have completed these requirements and just don't want to fill out the form, or haven't completed the requirements. It's still best to still get these vaccinations so you are better protected. You should call Cornell Health and ask them about your specific situation, how much they will cost on your specific insurance, and whether or not they are required.


For example, I'm a graduate student on Cornell's insurance, and all of the vaccinations I received here were free.




If you got the vaccines just go to your doc and ask for your immunization papers, otherwise arrive to campus and get the shots.




A few months too late with the enrolment memes.




You’re not even taking quantum wines? Fucking casual




oh no




When we’re so depressed, we develop a new level of mental illness




Kaylin Ratner gave a guest lecture to HD1170 this spring and talked about derailment and its relation to depression. She also defined it more broadly as "the sense of being off-course". I didn't realize derailment was a new topic, it was presented to the class as fairly well-established. Pretty cool either way to see it in a larger publication.




Interesting! I researched a similar paper for an FWS last semester (Wrtiting on the Wrong Side of History-its pretty cool). Its about the sudden realization of a discrepancy between the ideal self and the real self that haunts a lot of people later in their lives.

EDIT: Funnily enough, the paper was also co-authored by a Cornell researcher.




"We call it Cornell Disorder."

"Wow, that's a coincidence!"

"Not really..."




We did it! Proud of you, fam!




The research should sample the older population instead of college students lacking in experience (no offense.)

Sure there are cornerstones to transitioning into college but it's nothing compared to getting married, having children who will leave one day, moving & buying a house, death of parents & relatives, change of jobs, etc...




Honest question? What's the difference between a psychological disorder and just moving on with life? In the strictest terms derailment is a disorder in that it a departure from the normal order but it is also just people changing as they adjust to new circumstances.




Stupid




I’ve taken some math and one stats courses as a student in Arts and Sciences for the college’s distribution requirements. The math department is VERY theoretical. Higher level stats classes can also be quite theoretical. 

While I can’t speak for AEM, I’d recommend taking one math course and one quantitative aem course next semester and seeing which one fits with what you’re looking for.




DO IT!! Best way to make friends or atleast get to know people!! Look into which ones you wanna do though, but yess!! That’ll be fun!!




I did odyssey and it was great, especially if you like backpacking and hiking. Odyssey is also great because you can choose between 4, 6, and 8 day trips. I had never been backpacking before so I chose a 4 day trip and it was the perfect length for me! And it was nice going into o-week already having made friends




I did Odyssey, and it was the single most valuable group I joined freshman year. At Cornell, a lot of things are constantly competitive, and that takes a toll. Outdoor Education is really a oasis. Everyone there is genuine, and it's about learning, no matter what skills you come in with. I've taken a COE class every semester I could, and never regretted it. I made connections outside of my classes, relaxed, learned lots of outdoor and life skills, and improved my mental and physical health. I can't recommend it enough. For a good view of who outdoor Ed people are, you only have to read their vision statement:

 "I would found an oasis of madness in a pompous academic institution that takes itself far too seriously."




Going on an Outdoor Odyssey trip was most important decision I made coming into Cornell. It was so wonderful getting to know people, some of whom I'm still very close with three years later, and getting to know a beautiful part of the country that was very new to me. I would absolutely recommend! I am also pretty involved in Odyssey still and can answer any questions you have!




Your 'honors' appear on the diploma. Your minor only appears on your transcript. If you weren't supposed to graduate you probably wouldn't have been able to go to graduation, you're probably fine if you didn't fail any classes.




Transcript now lists that you graduated if you requested it! (There is a box on the bottom with name and your degree information such as cum laude and etc.)




I’m not taking 2100 and am taking 3630 next semester so don’t quote me but I’ve heard that 3630 is a bit more intense and rigorous because 2100 is kind of an ECE intro class whereas 3630 is kinda of a beefy mid level class for AEPs




If you're in physics and not invested in circuits specifically, I would take 3310 as 3630 is a lot of work to fulfill a lab requirement.




363 was probably around 20 hours a week outside of labs when I took it. It was pretty intense.




Al Morlnar is teaching 2100 next sem and you would REALLY learn circuits with that guy. You will definitely learn stuff a lot better (and in depth) with 2100 + 2300 but 3630 wont sham you, and it’s quicker.




a better comparison is aep 2640 (the engrd) is a combo of ece 2100 and ece 2300.




 Cringe




Was not a ChemE, but I graduated with about a 3.4 and am now at MIT for my PhD, so you can definitely get into a great school with that!




I just graduated as a ChemE and starting my PhD this fall. I had 5 acceptances to a broad range of schools including some top and some mid tier schools. A 3.4 won’t kill you for grad school. There are tons of great schools other than the top schools and what matters most is that you find a school that is strong in research you’re most interested in. That school may not be an MIT or Berkeley and that’s perfectly fine since what you do in grad school means a whole lot more than where you went.

If it helps ease your nerves I literally got a C+ in 2190, the very first core ChemE class and still did fine. You have so much time to improve your GPA and it seems like your research experience will get you very far. In the end your research experience will still take precedent over your stats.




Thats still a decent gpa imo




A 3.4 from Cornell is not too bad. Grad schools will typically just threshold your GPA anyway, they care a lot more about your research experience and how well your interests match with any potential advisors. You still have at least another year until grad apps, so maybe put some extra effort into classes, because bumping your GPA up by a point or two might still be nice. Plus, it seems like you did start research fairly early, so good for you!




Try to bring up your gpa, of course, but also focus on other parts of your application. GRE, letters of rec, essays, etc all are important. Don't be discouraged!




mediocre melodies!




Less Than Three, maybe? Women’s a cappella that does nerdy/fandom music.




I wouldn’t think so, it’s not part of the class




Any thermo you need will be quickly refreshed in future physics classes (at the level you need) or be pretty easy to study on your own. I don't remember doing much within the required core after 1112




Double major here- I am!




networking in the summer to get ahead. i like it. you belong in aem.




Feel free to dm




The water is cooled to near freezing temperatures, then saturated in salts to depress the freezing point and cooled further. Industrial freezer units are installed around Helen Newman (bartels just uses leftover ice from the hockey rink).

The hardest part of the test, imo, is breaking through the layer of ice at the end of the pool. It's best to practice swimming at least 30m underwater so that you have enough energy to kick a hole in the ice once you reach the end.




it's as heated as a normal pool is during summer... so not very, no




pretty sure its heated but

the best way to get 'used' to the water is to just jump in lol




You can find the pool temperatures here:  
https://recreation.athletics.cornell.edu/hours-facilities/pool-hours




Happy birthday llllllllluuuuuu!!!!




Yeah u just jump in and go, but the waters temperature isn’t really noticeable ?? it’s just normal feeling




I remember it being heated. When it’s your turn, you just hop on in.




In my experience, the pool only got heated at the colder times (November/December) during the fall semester. I guess it’s safe to say it’s not.




The colder the water is, the faster you swim generally (to a certain point). Pools would always be colder for swim meets than practice in my experience




Everyone, unless there are two course numbers (e.g. 4780/5780)




Where can we find median grades? It doesn't show up for me on student center.




Don’t worry about it. If you demonstrate a basal level of shits to give your grade will be fine, you will be fine, and you will have a comparatively happy life.




CALS bio major here! My sched was 1440, 2070, FWS, BIOEE 1610, and CHEM 1070 (the workshop for 2070, but they're revamping the class now so idk what's going on there).

BIOG 1500 is a good choice for first semester. I've had friends who took PSYCH 1101 or intro DSOC (I think DSOC 1101?) and they said it's not too bad. It's nice to have an FWS to take a break from all the STEM, but only if you need it. (I was in IB so I didn't get credit but most of my friends had AP lang/lit credit.) Since ur in CALS maybe look into one of the classes that fulfills the diversity requirement? There are a ton of interesting humanities listed on DUST :)

Feel free to PM me if you have other questions!




You can add an FWS if you want (everyone has to do 2 and its best to get them done in your first two sems - unless you have credit from AP Lit or something)

You could also throw in a Calc class - that’s a requirement for bio majors. I think this is the most common option. 

If you wanna hold off on too many stem classes or something, take a course that interests you - there’s so many offerings! Look into courses that fulfill your distribution reqs (read: im in A&S and am not sure about CALS distributions).

I also highly recommend CS1110, even if you have no previous CS experience - it’s a fantastic class.




TIL cornell has a lab of ornithology in the middle of nowhere




Gotta play the real challenge mode though -- no moving, scrolling, or zooming. Treat each round like a photograph and see if you can pinpoint the location! I've found this way harder and way more interesting. If you can just move around it becomes really easy with just one or two hops to see where you are.

Some scenes in Collegetown are fairly obvious, but I got one behind the Townhouses on North Campus (which I haven't seen in like 6 years) and I totally guessed wrong haha (thought it was a field near Ravenwood).




Omg love this. So much nostalgia as an alum




Good god why




Huh.  I thought that something named the "Johnson Museum" would feature dongs instead.




Dummy thicc




Italian for sure. Only language class (as far as I know) that only has lecture 3 days a week instead of 5. Super fun, nice teachers. Though it will take 3 semesters, as will most languages except I think for east asian ones like chinese which can fulfill the req in 2 semesters but are much more time-consuming.




Of Korean, Japanese, and Chinese, I think Korean is the easiest. They're all hard languages to learn, but Korean has an alphabet, so it's easier to read. Even though some people might recommend Chinese because the grammar is easier, like there aren't verb conjugations, it's still hard to adjust to certain grammatical quirks. You have to put in a lot of work for all three since they're all 6 credits and meet every day. Can't comment specifically on workload for any of the 1101 classes. Most people I know who have taken them have said they're really fun despite all the homework and this was my experience taking Chinese too because it was my favorite class both semesters this past school year




Depends on the amount of credits the class is. Certain intro classes are 4 credits, so the beginning track will take three semesters to fulfill. I took Japanese both semesters and the elementary courses are 6 credits each, so I finished the requirement in two semesters. I think the other East Asian Languages are also 6 credits for beginners.




Intro european languages are pretty easy. Did a couple of semesters of german and got As without much effort.




Personally I haven’t taken any language courses (not in CAS), but one of my friends took Portuguese for two semesters (intro plus the next level), and apparently the professor is super easy and the class average is an A. Idk if that fulfills your requirement completely tho.




So many people say german is the easiest to get a high grade in




Greek life at Cornell is especially dogshit compared to other schools because kids here are desperate to be more exclusive than other people. If you go on another school's greekrank you'll maybe see a bit of discussion about ranking houses but if you go on Cornell's its like 5 a day. People here are just *obsessed* with talking about who is better than who. 

The image isn't really a good example because it's still super extreme, but yeah. Greek life is *supposed* to be just a thing where you end up in a house with people you get along with and chill, but its a social climbing shithole where people just try to join the 'best' house they can and tear everyone else down.

source: was in a 'top' house a few years ago when i did my undergrad




Anonymity.




Lmao thats fucking rancid. 

People can defend the benefits of greek life all they want, but I’m never going to get over the feeling that this woman wouldn’t be this ignominious and pitiful if greek life at cornell didn’t exist in its current form. 

Having these kinds of thoughts just isn’t a healthy way to *exist*. You can’t help but feel sorry for a person that is so angry at an entire group of people solely because of an arbitrary and negligible difference.




like y’all couldn’t take a break for summer?




I didn't know they let incels into frats.




This is what people call a faulty generalization




The person is right though




I would also like many ice creams




When I toured Cornell, I thought the hot dog stand outside Day Hall was a regular thing.  I feel so deceived...




r/ambien vibes




Learn to type. 

If you currently just “hunt and peck,” learn to type.




enjoy your life.




This will be your last summer not pressured into an internship or taking make up classes.  

Enjoy the fuck out of it.  I made the mistake of fitting in coding internships into the two summers before college and coming in I came to the realization I'll never get solid free time again.  (i'm ece in coe)  

Enjoy your time with you friends and family, follow through with whatever hobbies you do and just enjoy that last bit of freedom till you work till you die. 

Unless your someone who derives enjoyment only from work in which case Cornell CS will either be your paradise or will break you.




bruhh just relax




Enjoy the summer, don't really fret on trying to teach yourself CS. If you're taking 1110 with Walker White he assumes NO prior knowledge and is very good at bringing everyone up to speed.




GRIND




Enjoy your summer.




Enjoy your cake day!!




yes, don’t do CS change majors




A luxurious and comfortable place may not be the best place to study late at night. You might fall asleep. At least I do.




Engineering library is open 247




Duffield is open over the summer




I always found PSB to be good for late night stuff. In Clark right behind the discussion classrooms there are individual desks that are good to isolate yourself and study.




If you don't mind the hike, the vet school has a great atrium




This is very doable! This is really similar to what a lot of engineers take first semester. Most engineers take CHEM 2090 though. It’s very similar to 2070, but I think prepares you better for the engineering courses.




Most engineers are taking something like this, when I was EnvEng I took the same courses except I took FWS instead of Econ.




make sure you finish your pe requirements in your freshman year cuz most of the pe classes are held in north campus.




[deleted]




[deleted]




You just taking courses for the new major, check their website about transfer info, you apply if you meet the requirements for internal transfer.




~~Pretty sure as an incoming freshman you don’t technically have a major, so you can “change it” by just taking the other major’s courses if that makes sense. Unless CALS is different in which case others can correct me~~

Edit: ignore this oops




http://courses.cornell.edu/content.php?catoid=31&navoid=7869#The_College_of_Arts_and_Sciences_awards_one_undergraduate_degree__the_Bachelor_of_Arts_degree.

Scroll all the way to the bottom.




Second edit: Please disregard the following, I have been alerted that it is in fact CoE-specific. Apologies.

Latin honors = cum laude, magna cum laude, and summa cum laude designations at graduation. As far as I know these are hard GPA requirements set by each college, but not the university as a whole (not sure what it is for CAS but for CoE it was 3.5, 3.75, and 4.0 respectively). There is no other requirement -- you just have to meet the GPA cutoffs.

Academic honors = department-specific honors (e.g. CS honors like you mentioned). The exact requirements for these vary, and often include more than just attaining a certain GPA. Sometimes this is called "with distinction" by the department.

Some departments' academic honors will subsume Latin honors; for example, in CS you must already graduate cum laude or better if you want to graduate with CS honors (in addition to taking the graduate-level course and participating in research).

Edit: When describing your accolades on a resume, it is best to be specific about which kind of honors you graduated with (e.g. "with Latin honors", "with academic honors", "with double honors", etc.). It's also fine to list something like "BA in Field X, magna cum laude, academic honors". People will get the point.




They're most likely not hiring at this point, but I'll always recommend Conference Services if you're looking to spend a summer there. Hours are flexible and they provide free housing




I recommend doing BigRed / HiredHands. When I was an undergrad I would do 2 hour moves a couple times a week at ~$10 / hour and I would always come out with $20 to as much as $50 in tips making my hourly really good. It’s not “on campus” per say, but you don’t need your own car.




Check out https://studentjobs.seo.cornell.edu/!




Killian is on sabbatical next year; he won't be teaching 4780.




👀




Same here!  I’ll be taking 5780 (cause I’m a grad) next semester. See you there!




Rutledge posted the exams for 3580 during the spring semester. As far as I can remember, the only REALLY hard questions were one or two mechanisms on each exam and everything else was relatively straightforward if you did the practice problems. That being said, I’m not sure about the time crunch as I never timed myself doing a summer exam and Rutledge is well known for making his prelims serious time crunches.




I have never taken the summer course, but orgo is a heavy content course. Assuming that you cover everything, you will have to spend a lot of your free time studying. It can be overwhelming due to the amount of similar mechanisms you will have to learn. Also some advice for Rutledge’s exams: don’t go in order, skim the exam first for all the questions you do know, ignore the extra credit question, and don’t waste time on long difficult questions. Personally I think Rutledge’s a great teacher and this might be worth it if you prefer smaller class settings or if you want to fast track to other courses.




Used those exams heavily to study for past spring. Problem sets, in his words himself "are designed with the idea that you have unlimited time to attempt them". They were honestly never that helpful and he purposefully puts material on there you haven't learned yet so dont freak out if a problem makes no sense. Start early and be consistent and you should honestly be fine--if you decide to cram you're in deep trouble.
As for the exams themselves I never timed the summer ones (material didnt correlate) but what I would recommend is use some of the exams as timed ones to see how far you are but then use other ones as untimed problems to practice. When taking a timed exam do NOT go in order. First attempt the questions that you KNOW you can immediately do without thinking about it, but mark the problems that you are pretty sure you could get with some time. Then do those problems you marked. Save questions like the box questions or very tough mechanisms for last. The time crunch is not as bad as it seems as long as you're strategic--and means tend to be in the 50s (out of 100) so you have wiggle room to have a a question basically blank.
If he decides to also have problem solving sessions go to those, if not do problems and get feedback from TAs or Tom.
This course really is doable but time-consuming--but if you just practice the material, study your notes, DO PRACTICE PROBLEMS FROM OLD EXAMS, and go to office hours you should be fine!




Doable. Worth studying and taking it. You’ll spend far less time studying for it over the summer than you will on hw sets and prelims during the semester.




Damn those petals were impressive. Makes ya feel like you're walking in a gd Disney movie.




You mean like the secret Dean’s List lounge?




It looks good on your transcript—employers see it and it can only work in your favor.




Looks good on your resume, and having that high a GPA is always good.




I tried to do stuff but tbh none of it helped in my experience.

I took CS 1110 and did fine with no CS experience—I did have a very great lab partner tho, so that helped a lot.




Honestly, you don’t need any prior experience. I took it as a freshman with no prior experience and did fine.




The course is designed for people with no prior experience. It can be demanding (though it's not meant to be absurdly so- it's a serious class, but the intention isn't to weed out students), but I've never really understood trying to prepare for it beforehand.

If you really want, you can look at the course material from last year's fall semester here: https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs1110/2018fa/. Fall material semester is generally very consistent throughout the years, absent the Python 2 -> Python 3 change that occurred a year back.

The main issue with trying to prepare yourself for this class is that this class is mainly geared at helping you to build the foundational skills needed for other courses. There are really no prerequisite skills needed for this. A danger with self-learning things like Python is that you can also acquire bad habits that you wouldn't learn in a more guided environment, as well.

Maybe as an exercise (stolen from my AP CS instructor way back when), try writing instructions for how to build a paper airplane from scratch. Get someone else to follow them exactly to the word of what you've written, and see how the result differs from what you mentally pictured when you were writing the instructions. Turning relatively simple concepts (the steps you already know to build an airplane) to a program (in this case, the steps you've written out) that is made of exact and precise instructions is going to be a large part of the challenge of the course. If you can think well in those terms, then you will be more than fine.




I actually was sort of in the same situation as you and took the MIT edX python course. I think it did help a decent amount, especially in the beginning of 1110. However, as I was completely new to CS, relatively easy things (even by 1110 standards) sometimes flew over my head and caused needless frustration. Overall, I'd recommend it.




Basically as the others have said- if you want to try and learn some basic Python syntax on your own over the summer, you can, but I don't feel it's the best use of your time. Syntax and the art of learning how to program will come as you take the course and get a feel for computer science.

The most important thing you need to do well, in my opinion, is not actually a strong foundation in programming. I went into the course with very little programming experience (my only prior experience was scarringly bad, to say the least), but I ended up doing very well in the course. It's the ability to reason out things logically and be able to explain how to do things step by step, in English (i.e. develop an 'algorithm' describing what needs to be done/written to implement a function). In the end, that's what a lot of programming in CS 1110 is like. They'll give you a description of what the code you need to write does (often in extensive detail) and your task will be able to translate that description, and break it down into step-by-step instructions that you can then turn into code. Writing the code is quite straightforward once you have the algorithm- the hard part is coming up with that description/directions/figuring out what to do in the first place. If your logical reasoning skills are strong, you'll have no problem with the course.

If you're dead serious on preparing over the summer though, you can find the recorded lectures from Fall 2017 here: [https://vod.video.cornell.edu/channel/CS1110+Fall+2017+-+Introduction+to+Computing+Using+Python/99436691](https://vod.video.cornell.edu/channel/CS1110+Fall+2017+-+Introduction+to+Computing+Using+Python/99436691)




There’s always people at Helen Newman around 6-8 pm




I believe there should be a things to do list for you on Cornell's website... you should be able to log into the site with your NetID, and from there you'll see a list of things to do, and their timelines.




Contact the international services office. The Visa application is different for each country. Plan ahead, the Visa application takes a long time.

https://isso.cornell.edu/

Useful info: https://www.mastersportal.com/visa-info/28-82/students-from-turkey-to-united-states.html




I am not a Turkish student, but you can find the Facebook page for the [Cornell Turkish Student Association at this link](https://www.facebook.com/groups/122745552498/). 

I am sure that several people on that page would be willing to help you out! There is a pretty sizable Turkish community at Cornell.




I know a lot about the process since I first entered the US on a student visa for my first masters. I don’t know if the process varies from one country to another, I don’t think so it does personally unless the country has a special designation or something. 

That being the case:
1) just google as much as you can on F-1 Visa, what it means, how to apply for it, what are the possibilities once you get one and what happens once you graduate. 

2) Every country especially turkey will have visa agents who help people getting these visas by preparing their documents in a better way. Normally they don’t charge a fee for the first meeting where you can get a broader understanding of the visa process. 

3) things that you are going to need: 
To apply for a F-1 visa you’re going to need a USCIS issued document known as I-20. Your school issues an I-20 when they accept your admission application- in this case, Cornell. The I-20 mentions some important data about your university, plus it mentions a cost of attendance. This is probably the most important number in an I-20. Why? Explained below. 

4) Once you get your I-20 you can book yourself a visa interview while paying an admission confirmation fee to Cornell ($1500) , a visa interview fee (varies by country) and a SEVIS fee. Total comes down to approx $2000. You can simply google about where and how to book a US visa interview in turkey and it’ll take you to the page that answers these questions.  Once you’re on that site you’ll have to fill up an application- make sure the information you provide here is absolutely verified and validated. For example: your name should match the given and last names on your country’s passport. 

5) once you fill and submit this application it allows you to choose a place and date where you want to give your interview. Once you confirm these things, you’re given a receipt you need to carry along with you to the consulate. 

6) during the visa interview: don’t get panicked, if you’re at the consulate giving this interview, you’ve passed the most difficult test which was to get an admission to a decent university in the United States. But, almost every international student panics at the very sight of these interviewers so i’m gonna tell you the three most important things they are going to ask you either directly or indirectly and you’ll have to prepare these answers while not giving away too much. 

Most important questions:
1) why are you going to the United States?
2) why did you choose Cornell?
3) why did you choose this particular program ? 
4) what are your plans after graduation ? 
5) what is your family’s income ? And do you have enough funds to cover your tuition and living expenses ? 

REMEMBER, they’ll either ask these questions directly or they’ll play with their words but the above 5 points cover 90% of the information they are trying to get from all the interviewees. DO NOT GIVE AWAY TOO MUCH INFORMATION WHILE ANSWERING! these guys aren’t rookies, they probably already have your entire life history on their computer screens and they could just be asking you questions to verify their data and will reject you if they think 2 and 2 aren’t adding up. For example : if they ask you why are you going to the US ? You’re not supposed to blabber out an essay on how the US is the greatest country in the world blah blah, your answer should be along the lines of “i’m going to study at Cornell university in the field of xyz”. that’s ITT.  

Now when it comes to money and expenses, DO NOT LIE at any cost. Their single most important concern is to make sure these students have enough money to cover their tuition and living expenses while studying so they don’t need to resort to illegal cash jobs during their stay in the United States. They want to make sure the students study, and once they graduate either get a job or fly back to their Home Countries. Nothing more nothing less. Also, before confirming your Cornell admission you’ll need to fill a supplement form required to fill by all international students. This supplement form requires you to declare your financial capability as well. Make sure that the numbers you’ve submitted in this supplement form are matching with the ones you’re declaring to your visa interviewer. There’s a 100% chance that the interviewer already received these numbers from the university. 

Hopefully, you’ll get your visa without any problems with a Cornell admit in your hand. And if you do, welcome to the United States. :) PM me if you’ve any specific questions.




I’m not from Turkey nor am I an international student but,

1. You will have to obtain the F-1 visa as an international student. You apply for this through USCIS—any question about this should prob be directed to a Cornell department that handles this kind of task. 

2. Housing is based on a lottery system. It will go up on your student center sometime in the summer.

3. Course sign-up is also in the summer. Freshman get the last time slot, so you guys basically get to pick up whatever classes are left, although most of your classes should have plenty of spots depending on what major/classes you are taking. 


P.S. I’m sure most of these have been answered somewhere on this subreddit, so I highly recommend that you try using the search function for the quickest answers!




Hiking at Buttermilk Falls! 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buttermilk_Falls_State_Park




Car is key to enjoying Ithaca and summer is the best time to be here.
Lots of hiking trails in state/local parks (Taughannock, Treman, check out all trails.com)
Mountain biking trails (Shindagin, Hammond Hill)
Gold, disc golf, ultimate frisbee league or pickup
Wine trail on Seneca lake
Farmer’s Market
Lots more




Witkins Glen if you can get there

[https://www.newyorkupstate.com/outdoors/2015/04/watkins\_glen\_state\_park\_spellbinding\_cliffs\_legendary\_gorge\_trail\_hours\_and\_more.html](https://www.newyorkupstate.com/outdoors/2015/04/watkins_glen_state_park_spellbinding_cliffs_legendary_gorge_trail_hours_and_more.html)




Eat, drink, be merry, go to festivals (check the events on facebook around the area), hike like others have said, go paddleboarding or do paddleboarding yoga, kayak, swim, explore waterfalls, go to the farmer's market, float down the river, visit the arboretum, go to outdoor concerts, find your preferred coffee roaster, maybe take day trips to Syracuse, or the Corning glass museum, etc., to see what's around you. Those longer hour-long drives get less appealing in the middle of semesters. Enjoy!!




Swimming at Treman State Park




Don’t miss out on the Wineries in the area! There are hundreds of them!




P much eating, drinking and hiking.




sometime in july




I think June/July




Yes. And freshman are free access at all times even for the summer.




I have the book that was used last fall for 3320. PM me if you wanna buy it




last year we used davenport's higher arithmetic in 3320, but I hardly used it. it's also available online via cornell's library if you ever need it.

update: just checked, seems like the book is different next sem
https://math.cornell.edu/textbooks




It’s a new requirement where you are introduced to Greek culture. You’ll learn the Ancient Greek alphabet, ancient history (the likes of Plato and Aristotle), and at the end, will be bestowed with a traditional toga which you’ll be required to wear to the Temple of Zeus when going there for daily offerings.




This is a class taught for freshmen in the Classics department. Mainly focuses on Ancient Greek Literature (Homer, Sophocles, etc.). I took it last semester and I really enjoyed it (but I do like literature tho). The class wasn’t that hard—just keep up with your readings. It’s a good class to get your LA requirement out of the way IMO




I got invited too. There's a thread on College Confidential from like ten years ago giving more details. I'm thinking I'll probably just apply and see what happens.




I'm not particularly sure but I'm fairly certain a new requirement for joining greek life is that you have to go to some information sessions before rushing/signing up to rush. It could be that.

It could also be some initiative by the school to make greek life a bit more inclusive/connected to the rest of the student body.




NS3310 is a really fun course. Lots of info for the curious, but stay focused on the red for exams. Notorious for a challenge, but not too hard. DM for more info.

Haven't taken NS 3450 but I am curious how it is, please let me know if you hear anything!




Honestly, it’s a bit of work for both. I think you need an application to add AEM as a double major so make sure you have the minimum requirements down - go check the CALS double major website.

On the other hand, you also have to apply to transfer to arts and take note of the additional arts and sciences requirements that will be placed on you if you do decide to transfer.

Probably depends on what year you are and how much time you have left + whichever you would prefer - AEM and Econ are pretty different in themselves.




It is unfeasible and you will give up after joining Greek life. I would recommend staying where you are and doing communications to maximize your GPA/drinking ratio




tomorrow according to Cornell's schedule




Where do they release them




O I must be illiterate w using student center then. Can’t find it




Just wear whatever—just make sure you get the free shirts/hats they pass out!




Honestly I wouldn’t order much stuff from the get-go. You get bombarded by free shit quite a bit through events so wait for that before spending on overpriced cornell store shirts.

Also you should be getting a free cornell 20XX shirt (your grad year) to order.




If you go to a party during the first weekend, make sure to wear the lanyard with your ID card and your keys. It’s considered polite




It’s very hard to go straight to a good MBA program without work experience first. Additionally if you have the right work experience, GMAT/GRE, and letters of Rec a 3.5 from Cornell can get you into any business school. Look at average GPA for very top schools it’s only a 3.6 so your well in range.




Tf is wrong with a 3.5? Chill




You gave us no info about your year and major so I'm gonna say  impossible, pack up your bags and go home.




[This website](https://gpacalculator.net/how-to-raise-gpa/) will show you how many credits/what grades you need to raise your GPA




Depends on the major entirely. A&S has everything from "hard" sciences, where GPAs are likelier to be in the toilet, to more liberal arts-y stuff where GPAs are probably going to be higher. If you're in the latter, a 3.5 should be totally manageable.




What’s a good MBA program to you?




A lot of time-consuming memorization, but not too difficult. The class sizes are small and the teachers are really friendly. Last fall the median was an A-




SHA does it so that it's only the top 25% of students each semester (or some similar percentage). It's usually around 3.78 ish




The other comments have given you some info to figure it out yourself. But the formal email notice itself, at least for A&S, comes early June.




So in my experience it’s a bit twofold. Mind you different major, different experience. Most jobs don’t care about the GPA, maybe at the very most “best the bar” scenario of like a 3.0 (this is tech focused though). But some places like hedge funds or government bodies have been pretty anal about my GPA, so it depends on the company more. But all in all, not an end all be all scenario if you didn’t do so hot in one semester.




What field are you looking to go into? I’m a Hotelie graduate!




No




I'm a CS major so not sure if this'll translate over, but I've interviewed for both CS jobs and things like consulting. Never in an interview has someone brought up some of the shitty grades I got in my core CS classes, they really only cared about what was on my resume (GPA, projects, experience). 

&#x200B;

If you got 1-2 bad grades in a semester, that won't ruin your chances. Tbh my entire transcript is me doing extremely well in electives and technical classes, and scraping by the majority of my core classes with C+'s/B-'s.




Yep ☝️

AEM 2400, starts today actually




What would you like to know about them? 

If you're asking for difficulty and time, they're pretty easy to handle.




You have to use the super secret chemistry department portal...idk if this is more common knowledge than I've perceived, but I have a hard time finding it so I just saved the link.

https://chemlabs.arts.cornell.edu/grades/

Strangely enough my own final exam grades don't seem to be up as of this comment's posting. If there's an alternate method of checking someone please add on.




U had to pick them up from prof's office. Avg was like a 62 or something




Galaxium - I'm glad you posted. I've posted a 4.1 gpa mixed chemical and mechanical engineering background and am on track to graduate in 7 semesters. Could you set me up with a conversation with your parents? It sounds like the four of us could really build off each other's ideas. Side note- I will be flummoxed if I don't get an A+ in this course. One of the easiest I've ever taken!




i got a 98. thought it was pretty easy




Where on campus specifically? If we're talking central campus then there are no permits for students, although you can usually get by with parking on permit lots after staff/faculty are gone. 

If you are talking about the student parking lots, then you can do either parkmobile or get a parking pass--as far as I know there are no summer passes so it's best if you can get one from someone you know.




Follow crowds of freshman




make friends with people in greek life




Facebook




Hi. 

My situation is near identical. You can review my post history to r/Cornell to see many of my responses to others in similar situations. I think it may be beneficial to see. 

You are okay. 

You certainly won’t be kicked out. It is unlikely you will be put on forced leave. It is relatively likely you will be put on probation or given a warning. 

If you don’t allow this to happen again, it won’t make a difference to anything. I regret using the word “allow”, because as someone who’s been in the situation I understand that nothing about it feels like “allowing” yourself to do it. But the university doesn’t see it that way — and that’s really all there is to it. We must bow to the policies of Lord Cornell. 

You acted with resolve, even if it doesn’t seem like it. Taking the INC was an extremely wise choice. You have prevented yourself some amount of headache for the future, even if it still seems dire. 

Here’s what I recommend: be honest. Do as the email says (I received a similar one). Write your statement; be thorough and precise. Explain everything. Have no shame. Your struggle is not a weakness; further, acknowledging it in a formal setting like this amounts to a strength that the average individual lacks, albeit blissfully so. Submit with your statement records of your visits with Cornell Health. Contact Cornell Health, and request to sign away your confidentiality to a certain party with the University, so that they may discuss your appointments. Act now, time is valuable. 

I am not sure what triggered your struggles. Mine came from a mixture of splitting with my long term SO and some broad form of nihilistic dread. Regardless, you need to remove them. If you don’t know what the causes were, discover them. They may seem gone — but they aren’t until you find them, acknowledge them, and remove them. Removing them means different things to different people. To some, it may mean destroying them outright (e.g. if a major cause was drinking, removing access to alcohol for yourself). Personally, I found the best solution was to analyze my thoughts, consider why I thought them, and decide whether I found them useful. If I did, then I would admit them to my mind and make changes. Otherwise, I acknowledge that those thoughts are not who I am, and allow them to drift away. This process has effectively eliminated my tendency to ruminate, which was destroying me. This process is arduous and mentally exhausting — exercises in mindfulness help tremendously. 

Consider the world and your place in it. Consider where you want to end up, whom you want to become, and what you are willing to do to get there. Remember that these things are fluid, and that which you want now may not be what you desire tomorrow. That is okay. 

At risk of imparting my (in general not looked upon favorably) worldview upon you, I suggest to you that life itself is meaningless. Our existences are precluded from having any universal meaning by the very nature of what being human is. I’m aware that sounds insufferably edgy, but I don’t mean it to. What I mean when I say that is that you should remember that the only thing that matters in your life are yourself, and anything you choose to be important to you. I know that’s vague and almost sounds like a joke, but I mean it seriously. 

The world has a lot to offer, to experience and enjoy. You don’t *have* to do anything. You can do whatever you want. I recommend you find things which make you happy, and devote yourself to those things. And re the second point, decide which things are important to you aside from your own happiness (perhaps family connections, your boyfriend, making others happy, contributing to science, whatever). Acknowledge that these decisions are essentially arbitrary, and that they are really an extension of the first point: they matter to you because seeing their successful improvement or completion or what-have-you makes you happy. 

In the end, the only thing that matters to *you* ought to be how you lived your own life. How much you experienced/did and how much happiness it brought you. 

Personally, I’ve found these thoughts to be *extremely* liberating. There will always be a path for you which ends in your being content with what you’ve done. 

My point is — everything will be fine. You will still be able to get your dream job and do what you currently want to do despite this semester’s blip. And even if it turns out that you can’t? *That’s okay too.* There is ALWAYS something to do, someone to become. Your life is yours to do with as you please. Spend it wisely. 

I hope this brings you some peace. An anxious mind is extremely distressing. I hope you can free yourself from it. 

You can contact me anytime for any reason whatsoever — no one deserves to feel what we have felt. 

Best of luck.




I had a couple of probation semesters and even a mandatory semester leave of absence following some turmoil in my home life that made it very hard to focus. At the end of my leave I came back refocused and all set and it ended up being really good for me academically. Had an accepted job in the fall of senior year that was very competitive in spite of my academic struggles. For me it was about learning to accept what had happened and taking everything one step at a time. In the end - it worked out great and I always consider the education I received to be the biggest factor in achieving success in my field.




>What are the steps I should take, especially with financial aid? Anyone else have a similar experience or advice? Sorry if this post seems stupid and long.

your financial aid is fine as long as this isn't like your second problem semester *and* your cumulative gpa is above a 2.0

>To meet Satisfactory Academic Progress standards, a student must maintain a **cumulative GPA of at least 2.0.**

https://finaid.cornell.edu/policies/federal-satisfactory-academic-progress




I don’t know about most things you’re asking regarding a warning and academic standing because they’re gonna be Cornell specific and i’m actually an incoming grad student so I don’t know much about it. However, hell yes you’ll be fine and double hell yes you’ll get a job and if you stop regretting past mistakes and move on to better things, you’ll be damn good at that job as well. I flunked probably dozen subjects in my bachelors and miraculously somehow completed the program. This was 5 years ago. Since then I got myself a MS from NYU and i’m on my way to Cornell for another masters and I got a job as well. So don’t worry. You’ll be alright.




Assuming I’m reading your post right you’ll be on academic probation the next semester.  Having spent the last semester on academic probation I don’t believe that this should affect your financial aid.  Probation differs between colleges and from student to student but in my case I had to not fail a class, obtain a gpa above a 2.0, and complete at least 12 credits.  I would just be sure to take as many “easy” credits as you can, don’t do what I did and take a class you know you’ll struggle and be stuck in it due to not having enough credits during drop period.  Reach out to your faculty advisor and your probation advisor, it might not feel like it all the time but they generally want to help.  Make sure to reach out to them as soon as you can so they can help with your classes for next semester.  

TLDR:  Your financial aid should be okay for this upcoming semester.  I would suggest talking to advisors about your schedule for next semester to make sure you have wriggle room.

I’m sorry if I misread anything I hope this can help a little




>Report Post

>Reason: I’m in this post and I don’t like it

It gets better man. It always will.




1) You won't be kicked out. You will either be under a probationary semester or they may ask you to take a leave if absence and seek medical help.

2) just explain your situation, they'll be understanding. 

3) Financial aid won't be affected since it's your first time.




Have you considered taking a leave of absence or health leave to calm your issues? I’m currently on a leave myself. You could suggest the possibility of taking a temporary leave in your email?




I've failed classes and taken multiple incompletes over several semesters. I was accepted conditionally for an internal transfer, failed a class, got kicked out of that school with in Cornell, was school-less, had to beg my way back into my original college. I'm now interning at the most well known of the tech companies with a sub 3 GPA. Your life is very much not over, write the letter (which I also had to do), finish your incomplete, and work on your mental health bc that's the one thing that will make a difference.




There's already so much good advice here. I'll add something small. In your paper to the committee, try beginning on a positive note. While it may not seems like it, the academic probation system is intended to be a call to action, not a punishment. The people reading your letter will know this. So, try opening your letter with something like:

"Thank you for your concern about my academic standing. I am confident that with your assistance and resources, I can bring my performance back up to the level I have achieved in previous semesters, and finish my Cornell career strong."




Not in Ithaca yet, but I DM'd you a link to one of the summer in Ithaca groupme's.




lol I'm here for research haha




I just realized this might imply I wanna netflix and chill...I don't




Can you DM me the link as well? Ithaca summers are great...with the right people.




Please DM me the link too. Thanks!




me too pls




Just DM'ed you. Also here until the end of June. I have some alcohol, some weird records, a PS4, a Switch, and Mansions of Madness if anyone is down to hang out and trash on Cornell lol.




Any one tryna cyph?🌬🌳




[http://gen.lib.rus.ec/](http://gen.lib.rus.ec/)




A in 2800... impressive!




Yes it is very possible/certain. Companies (Google, Apple, Microsoft, ect. ) will hire you in a heartbeat since you are coming from a top  notch institution, you do not need a double major. 

&#x200B;

A  development internship before you graduate will definitely help though. Consider going though [https://intern.supply/](https://intern.supply/) when jobs start opening in August. You may have to apply to a ton (50+) but you can find one. Also go to carrer fair. 

&#x200B;

90% of jr. development is 2110 level stuff. 

&#x200B;

Also consider some of the info sci classes like info 1200/2300/3300. Those are equally helpful and are not bad classes.




pick up the double major u wont no balls




If there were it would only be used for students buying fake IDs lmao




Nope. Use localbitcoins.com or message me when the semester starts again and I'll sell you some.




Oh, a question I can answer. How nice. I went to reunion in 2007 (spouse's 20th, I graduated a year later).

Reunion is a huge event.  Enormous numbers of people, tents everywhere, cars parked all over Libe Slope. There's a large schedule of events, lectures, food, etc. Some open to specific class years, some for everyone, some for kids, etc. I can only imagine it gets bigger every year, since Cornell's student body grows every year.

We planned ahead with specific friends and spent most of our time with them. A few of the bigger social events reminded me of parties at Cornell: a big load of people who I don't know but should be socializing with. Weird feelings of "Everybody knows everybody else but me." Old social anxieties came back!

I remember seeing a surprising number of very old alums, with tons of ribbons (or buttons?) representing every reunion they had attended. Some people are *really* serious about Cornell Reunions! (Do I even have my button or ribbon still? Yikes!)

We got a bit of "free" swag: a baseball cap and lawn chair. We stayed in Lyon Hall, I remember being surprised at how heavy the doors were, and that we were expected to keep them closed. It didn't seem a good environment for socializing.

I think like any big social event, some people love the big parties and some people like to seek out a few friends and stick with them; I am more of the latter. In addition to hanging out at official events, our group went to the Museum of the Earth, Treman Park, and (I think) Moosewood. Most of us had kids by that time, and it was fun to meet their kids, often for the first time.

An interesting observation is that apparently my eldest child imprinted on Cornell much more than I realized, and it became her dream school. I have heard similar stories from others. (Kid is now a rising Junior at Cornell, by the way)

Of course if you're only 5 years out it might be very different for you. Personally, I don't really see the point of going back until at least 10 years have passed. I mean, what has really changed for you and your friends?

Hope this helps.




I work for Reunion as a clerk! Turnout is pretty decent, the younger classes (you) come and party all weekend basically. There will be events for food and wine tours, etc.




The 5-year reunion has the best turnout of all the years, I would estimate between 900 and 1100 attendees depending on the year. I've worked at several reunions and I would say it is Cornell's best-kept secret. It's a weekend full of fun events and meals, lots of opportunity to hang around old stomping grounds and reconnect with classmates. Always a bonus if the weather in June works out (it normally does!). Highly highly recommend going back for it.




I went to my 5 year reunion and had an amazing time! I highly recommend attending. There is a huge turnout for the 5 year (I'd estimate around 1000) and there are a lot of scheduled events like wine tours and tent parties with plenty of time to catch up with friends and hit up your favorite spots on campus and around Ithaca. Definitely coordinate with your friends beforehand to make sure you can block rooms in Dickson together.




Since most people here are current or recently graduated students they may not have the experience to answer your question, so I'd just like to add that you got almost nothing to lose by going and enjoying a few days in Ithaca, I'm sure turnout is decent.




